CENTIPEDE Giant Black
Centipede
Giant Brown
Centipede
Giant Pink
Centipede
Monstrous
Green Centipede
No. Encountered: 3d4 (3d12) 3d4 2d4 (4d4) 1d4
Alignment: Neutral Neutral Neutral Neutral
Size: S S S L
Movement: 20 20 20 40
Dexterity: 13 13 13 10
Armour Class: 9 9 9 3
Hit Dice: ½ ½ ½ 10
Attack Rate: 1/1 (bite) 1/1 (bite) 1/1 (bite) 1/1 (bite)
Damage: 1d2 1d2 1d2 3d6+3
Saving Throw: 17 17 17 12
Morale: 7 4 7 10
Experience Points: 25 25 45 1,750
Treasure Class: — — — J, K, L, M, N, Q
Giant centipedes are multi-segmented arthropods,
up to 2½ feet long and narrow, with a pair of legs
projecting from each segment. They typically inhabit
mild, moist environments, as well as caverns and
dungeons deep. Many varieties of giant centipede exist
(some of which are edible). Notorious species include
the giant black centipede, a glossy black variety noted
for its bands of orange and yellow; the giant brown
centipede, noted for its light red underbelly; and the
giant pink centipede, noted for its green spots. The
black and pink centipedes’ pincer bites inflict minimal
damage, but their venom is potentially deadly; the
brown centipede’s pincer bite delivers acidic, skineating
venom.
The monstrous green centipede is a myriapod from 30
to 40 feet long that dwells in the deepest subterranean
caverns of Hyperborea. Its large mandibles inflict
crushing damage, but its venom is less toxic than its
smaller counterparts. This centipede is a surprisingly
fast creature that aims to entrap its prey in an
underbelly cavity; it then retreats to digest its victims’
flesh and blood, ejecting any other remains in a
spherical pile.
Special (giant black centipede):
¬¬ Bite delivers venom; make death (poison) save or
suffer an additional 2d6 hp damage—a painful,
blood-boiling sensation.
Special (giant brown centipede):
¬¬ Bite delivers venom; make death (poison) save
or suffer an additional 1d4 hp damage from
rapidly spreading necrotic acid. Damage persists
cumulatively, causing 2d4 hp damage on round
2, 3d4 hp damage on round 3, and finally 4d4 hp
damage on round 4. After delivering this bite
(whether the save is successful or not), the creature
withdraws, waiting for its prey to die so it can then
feed on its flesh.
Special (giant pink centipede):
¬¬ Bite delivers venom; make
death (poison) save or suffer
blindness immediately and
paralysis 1d6 turns later. In
1d2 days, an additional death
(poison) save must be made
or the victim dies; otherwise
the paralysis will fade, but the
blindness is permanent.
Special (monstrous green centipede):
¬¬ Bite delivers venom; make
death (poison) save or suffer
slow effect (as the spell) for
2d6 turns.
¬¬ Can entrap slowed victims:
The centipede rears up, its
underbelly exoskeletal plates
swing open, and its legs
scoop the victim into one of its two or three coffinsized
cavities. This manoeuvre requires a separate
attack roll (non-damaging), and an avoidance
save is permitted. Inside the centipede, an acidic,
digestive gel releases, causing 1 hp damage per
turn until death or escape. The entrapped may
attempt to push open the exoskeletal plates via
an extraordinary feat of strength (see Vol. I, p. 7:
Attributes, strength). Alternatively, he can use
a WC 1–3 blade to cut his way free, with an attack
penalty equal to the weapon class; the entrapped
must inflict 20 hp damage to break free.
