DÆMON, GREATER, CLASS IV (Undead Type 13)
No. Encountered: 1 (1d3)
Alignment: Chaotic Evil
Size: L
Movement: 30 (fly 40)
Dexterity: 8
Armour Class: −1
Hit Dice: 11
Attack Rate: 3/1 (claw / claw / gore)
Damage: 3d4 / 3d4 / 4d4
Saving Throw: 11
Morale: 10
Experience Points: 4,700
Treasure Class: E
Massive and fearsome, these dæmons stand 10–12 feet
tall and weigh as much as 1,000 pounds. They are quite
furry, and their body shapes are vaguely simian, though
with porcine countenances. They stand upon the heavy
hooves of a boar, and from their shoulder blades project
a pair of small, feathered wings that appear too small to
provide the power of flight, yet do nonetheless.
Class IV greater dæmons are highly intelligent, though
they possess the same appetite for human flesh as other
dæmons. These scheming dæmons dominate their
inferior kin, and in the netherworlds within which they
dwell (such as Underborea), they oft dominate. Rarely
do class IV greater dæmons dwell in the world of men
unless they are beckoned, they are commanded by a more
powerful dæmon, or they plot on their own. N.B.: If one
attempts to beckon a class IV greater dæmon without
knowledge of the specific dæmon’s true name, the beast
at once will seek to slay the summoner; otherwise it
will listen to him, though not necessarily obey, perhaps
performing a service if the reward is substantial.
Special:
¬¬ 10-in-20 spell resistance versus CA 12 casters. For
every CA level less than 12, the chance-in-twenty
increases by one (+1) (see Vol. III, p. 261: Saving
Throw, spell resistance).
¬¬ Cold, electricity, fire, and gas attacks inflict
½ damage, or ¼ damage if save is made.
¬¬ +1 or better weapon to hit.
¬¬ All attack rolls made at +2 bonus.
¬¬ Can cast the following spells at will (though only
one at a time): cause fear (reverse of remove fear),
darkness, decipher language, detect invisibility, detect
magic, improved phantasm, infrared vision, levitate,
polymorph self, pyrotechnics, telekinesis, teleport
(without error).
¬¬ Once per day, can attempt to beckon another dæmon
to fight alongside it (as reverse of dismissal), with
4-in-6 chance of success; roll 1d4 to determine if
a class I, class II, class III, or class IV greater
dæmon is beckoned. Alternatively, it can attempt to
summon 1d4 class iii lesser dæmons or 1d3 class v
lesser dæmons, with 5-in-6 chance of success.
