OON (Ghost-Man)
No. Encountered: 1d3 (3d8×10)
Alignment: Neutral
Size: M
Movement: 40
Dexterity: 9
Armour Class: 9
Hit Dice: 1
Attack Rate: 1/1 (weapon)
Damage: (per weapon)
Saving Throw: 16
Morale: 12
Experience Points: 10*
Treasure Class: J
* Refer to p. 294: Table 122 for classed individuals.
The oon are a subterranean race of enthralled humans, servants
of the otherworldly mi-go. They are extremely pale of skin (to
the point of transparency), with grey, sunken eyes and straight,
black tresses (but lacking facial or bodily hair). Discerning the
differences betwixt two oon is difficult—even the males and
females resemble one another uncannily. Through an alien form
of synthetic fertilization, they are reproduced genetically in
subterranean laboratories and raised outside the womb with no
maternal connexion. The oon speak their own language, Oonat; rare
exceptions speak the Common tongue as well.
Throughout their lives, oon are fed an addictive concoction (laced
in their food and drink) that suppresses sexuality, hormonal
development, ambition, and individuality. Thus the oon are
rendered perfect slaves, of unquestioning obedience to their alien
masters. If oon are denied this elixir for more than two weeks, they
initially will go mad, but at length will begin to develop hormonally:
Females swell of hip and breast; males grow facial hair, and their
voices deepen.
Lessons are begun at an early age, and the mi-go will assign oon to
appointments that suit their natural talents. Some oon are tasked
as bounty hunters or assassins, venturing to the surface to effect
outcomes desired by the mi-go; these are amongst the few oon with
knowledge of upper-world tongues. These trusted slaves usually are
sent in threes, garbed in long, black cloaks and tall, broad-brimmed
hats that conceal their ghostly features. They will assassinate,
abduct, or infiltrate as ordered; if captured, an oon will commit
suicide by rupturing a false tooth that releases a disintegration
toxin. As the oon abhor light, surface venturers are seen only at
night.
Special:
¬¬ Infrared vision (as the spell) to 120-foot range.
¬¬ −2 attack penalty when exposed to bright light.
¬¬ NPC oon are typically assassins or scouts, to be developed by
the referee. PC oon might be freed slaves whose skin and eyes
slowly will adjust to sunlight (negating their special abilities).
All such oon use the hit die type appropriate to their chosen
class.
