SNAKE Asp Python Rattlesnake Spitting
Cobra Viper
No. Encountered: 1 (2d4) 1 1 (2d4) 1 (1d6) 1 (3d10)
Alignment: Neutral Neutral Neutral Neutral Neutral
Size: S M S S S
Movement: 40 30 (swim 20) 40 30 40
Dexterity: 10 8 15 15 10
Armour Class: 7 7 6 7 6
Hit Dice: 2 3 2 1 ½
Attack Rate: 1/1 (bite) 1/1 (bite) 2/1 (bite / bite) 1/1 (bite) 1/1 (bite)
Damage: 1 1d4 1d2 / 1d2 1 1
Saving Throw: 16 15 16 16 17
Morale: 7 9 7 7 8
Experience Points: 60 101 64 43 27
Treasure Class: — — — — —
Several snake species inhabit Hyperborea. The asp,
python, rattlesnake, spitting cobra, and viper are
some of the more eminent varieties. They hibernate
during the winter years, except perhaps on the warmer
outer islands, such as New Amazonia.
The asp is a dark, narrow-hooded cobra of from twoto
five-foot length. Its venom is quite deadly, a prized
toxin for the most notorious of assassins.
The python ranges 11–20 feet in length, with scales of
alternating colours and patterns (oft spiroid) depending
on its native environment (e.g., forests, grasslands,
swamps). The python bites, constricts, and then
swallows whole its prey.
The rattlesnake ranges from four to eight feet in
length, with reticulated black, brown, green, red, tan,
and/or white scales, oft diamond-patterned. It dwells
in deserts or dungeon depths. A rattlesnake’s tail has
a scaly white rattle that it violently shakes to ward off
enemies, though it might not shake its rattle before
attacking. Because of its swiftness, the rattlesnake
strikes twice per round.
The spitting cobra is a five- to six-foot-long, pale grey
snake capable of firing a stream of venom. A spitting
cobra usually attacks only when startled or threatened,
rearing up and releasing a jet of virulent spittle.
Spitting cobras also can bite, their venom potentially
deadly. They cannot shoot venom and bite in the same
round.
The viper is a venomous snake of three-foot length,
with a broad head and large fangs. Vipers present in
various colours, typically yellow, orange, or pink, with
dark patterns of brown, green, or black diamondshaped
blotches.
Special (asp):
¬¬ Bite injects venom
thrice per day.
Victim must make
death (poison)
save or die at
once; even if save
is successful,
3d6 hp damage
is sustained
(a terrible
blood-burning
sensation). Site of
wound is purple
and swollen; may
become septic if
victim survives
(cure disease heals).
Special (python):
¬¬ Infrared vision (as the spell) to 30-foot range.
¬¬ Upon successful bite, python constricts prey for
2d4 hp damage per round. Victim can attempt to
escape via extraordinary feat of strength or dexterity
(see Vol. I, p. 7: Attributes, strength and
dexterity). Otherwise, allies whose strength totals at
least 60 can remove snake in 1d4 rounds.
¬¬ Whilst constricting prey, python suffers a −2 AC
penalty (AC 9).
Special (rattlesnake):
¬¬ Infrared vision (as the spell) to 30-foot range.
¬¬ Bite injects venom twice per day. Victim must make
death (poison) save or suffer additional 2d6 hp
damage, dying in 1d6 turns. Site of wound is purple
and swollen; may become septic if victim survives
(cure disease heals).
Special (spitting cobra):
¬¬ Once per day can spit venom to range of 15, aiming
for target’s eyes. If venom hits, victim must
make death (poison) save or be blinded. Only cure
blindness restores sight. Great helm (typically
included with field plate and full plate) blocks
venom on 3-in-6 chance.
¬¬ Bite injects venom twice per day. Victim must make
death (poison) save or die in 1d6+6 turns.
Special (viper):
¬¬ Infrared vision (as the spell) to 30-foot range.
¬¬ Bite injects venom once per day. Victim must make
death (poison) save or suffer additional 1 hp damage
per round for 3d4 rounds. Site of wound is purple
and swollen; may become septic if victim survives
(cure disease heals).
