TREE-MAN CRAWLER
(Pinophytal Horror, Sailback Treant)
No. Encountered: 1d3+1
Alignment: Neutral
Size: L
Movement: 40
Dexterity: 12
Armour Class: 2
Hit Dice: 10
Attack Rate: 5/1 (lash ×4 / bite)
Damage: 2d6 (×4) / 3d8
Saving Throw: 12
Morale: 11 (8)
Experience Points: 1,300 (1,450 if hp 55+)
Treasure Class: Q (×5)
These carnivorous tree-men of from 20- to 30-foot
height do not walk upright in a bipedal fashion; rather,
when they uproot themselves to ambulate, they tip
over and place their trunks parallel to the ground. Next,
they use their branches to crawl as centipedes—
except for the branches on the topside of the trunk,
which are raised like a sail (hence the name “sailback
treants”). Once parallel to the ground, a tree-man
crawler will utilize large knots on opposite sides of its
trunk to see; these weird, wooden oculi evince the cold,
dead stare of a doll’s eyes.
When in ambulatory form, a tree-man crawler
unleashes its four tentacle-like roots (“rootacles”) to
attack prey (typically mammals), lashing and drawing
victims to its terrible maw. Like other tree-men, treeman
crawlers are conifers; consequently, their rootacles
are covered in sap and adhere to whatever they touch.
In fact, resin suffuses these creatures inside and out,
hence their vulnerability to fire.
Tree-man crawlers typically are found in high-elevation
glaciated regions, and they tend to be territorial:
Adults rarely stray more than 100 yards from their
home grounds, and they attack on sight any perceived
threat within that range. Saplings, after reaching about
one foot in height, scurry away to find new grounds
where they can root themselves; they oft are mistaken
for giant centipedes during such journeys. In the
hoary depths of the Savage Boreal Coast, legends
persist of enormous redwood horrors standing over
400 feet tall, capable of devouring whole a woolly
mammoth. Esquimaux and Half-Blood Pictish sages
and shamans aver that these beings grew from eggs
shed by Kraken (Khalk-Xu).
Special:
¬¬ Vulnerable to fire: +2 hp per die of damage, −2
saving throw penalty.
¬¬ ML reduced to 8 in presence of fire.
¬¬ If a Medium creature is struck by two or more
rootacles, the crawler will pull the victim to its
maw and bite automatically for 3d8 hp damage. The
next round, the victim will be constricted for 2d6
hp damage per attached rootacle. Furthermore, the
crawler will continue to bite each round that two
or more rootacles are attached, and it automatically
can attach its remaining rootacles, which each
will begin inflicting 2d6 hp damage on the round
following attachment. Escaping the crawler’s grasp
requires an extraordinary feat of strength (see Vol.
I, p. 7: Attributes, strength), success indicating
the rootacle is broken; alternatively, one may sever
a rootacle with a blade, but it must suffer 10 hp
damage to break (separate from the main body’s hp
total). A held victim is at a disadvantage, suffering
a −4 penalty to attack rolls.
¬¬ The largest tree-man crawlers (those of 55 or more
hit points) are long enough that they may use
the last four to six feet of their lengths to sweep
opponents off their feet. A successful sweep attack
deals 2d6 hp damage and knocks prone Small or
Medium creatures (see Vol. III, p. 242: Combat,
attack modifiers). A successful avoidance save halves
the damage and allows
the subject to remain
standing.
