ZOMBIE (Walking Dead) (Undead Type 2)
No. Encountered: 1d6 (4d6)
Alignment: Chaotic Evil
Size: M
Movement: 30
Dexterity: 3
Armour Class: 8
Hit Dice: 2
Attack Rate: 1/1 (pummel or bite)
Damage: 1d8 or 1d3
Saving Throw: 16
Morale: 12
Experience Points: 64
Treasure Class: J, K, L, M
These undead humanoids, sometimes referred to as
the “walking dead”, are the soulless corpses of men
or humanoids animated by witchcræft, necromancy,
or a netherworldly curse; in other cases the affliction
of zombiism is akin to disease transmission. Often
zombies are tasked with guardianship of a person,
place, or thing. Requiring no sustenance, they can stand
silent and motionless until a prescribed condition is
met, though they move slowly and rely on trapping or
surprizing their opponents. Zombies typically pummel
their opponents to death and then feast on their flesh,
entrails, and brains.
Special:
¬¬ Slow to react, always attacking last on initiative; no
running movement allowed.
¬¬ Immune to poison, paralysis, fear, and cold.
¬¬ Cure disease destroys zombie.
¬¬ Arrows and bolts inflict but 1 hp damage (plus
bonuses, if applicable); other piercing / thrusting
weapons cause ½ damage (damage dice halved, with
bonuses added afterwards).
¬¬ Any natural 19–20 attack roll versus a zombie is
considered a “head shot” inflicting maximum
damage, regardless of weapon type; this mechanic
supersedes the optional critical hits rule (see Vol. III,
p. 258: Advanced Combat, critical hits).
¬¬ 1-in-4 chance of bite attempt per round; otherwise,
pummel attacks apply until the zombie drops its foe,
which it then will attempt to eat.
¬¬ Bite infects victim with the zombiism disease (no
saving throw allowed). Infection manifests 1 turn
after bite and begins with intense fever, followed by
loss of consciousness 1d6+6 turns later. Within 1d10+2
hours the victim dies; 1d6 turns thereafter he rises as
a zombie. Cure disease can disrupt and alleviate this
process, if cast before victim’s death.
¬¬ Multiple zombies will attempt to overbear victims
(see Vol. III, p. 248: Combat Actions, melee).
