ABOLETH
No. Encountered: 1 (1d4)
Alignment: Lawful Evil
Size: L
Movement: 10 (swim 60)
Dexterity: 11
Armour Class: 4
Hit Dice: 8
Attack Rate: 4/1 (lash ×4)
Damage: 1d6 (×4)
Saving Throw: 13
Morale: 10
Experience Points: 1,880
Treasure Class: F
Aboleths are massive alien beasts, up to 10 feet
tall and 7–8 feet thick, their scaly, blue-green
bodies coated with mucous slime. They have
thick, fluked tails of 12-foot length and four
anterior, sucker-bearing tentacles, each about
10 feet long, which they use to drag their bulk
when on land. Centred amongst the tentacles
is a circular mouth lined with three rows of
triangular teeth. Three violet eyes, narrow slits
in succession, are set atop a bulky head.
This ancient race of intelligent amphibious monsters
inhabits subterranean lakes and caverns. Aboleths
hate other sentient life, slaying or enslaving men and
humanoids. Hoarders of otherworldly knowledge,
aboleths are enemies of elder things, the Great Race,
and mi-go, but are known to ally with fish-men,
fellow advocates of Kthulhu. Indeed, aboleths are
said to receive dreaming Kthulhu’s edicts when they
take their yearlong slumber. Typically, few aboleths
are encountered, but Atlantean sages speak of large
colonies dwelling in subaqueous cities of alien
architecture.
Special:
¬¬ At will, to a range of 240 feet, the aboleth can effect
a vivid illusion of sight, sound, and smell (see
advanced spectral phantasm spell); however, it must
maintain concentration for the illusion to persist.
¬¬ Thrice per day, an aboleth can impose its mind
control ability on all within 30 feet. Those who fail
sorcery saves will serve and obey the aboleth; the
saves are modified by willpower adjustment (see
Vol. I, p. 9: Attributes, wisdom), if applicable.
The enslaved will not bring harm to friends or
former associates, but will abide other telepathic
commands, so long as the monster is never more
than one mile distant. Dispel magic or remove curse
can terminate this enchantment.
¬¬ If tentacle hits, victim must make transformation
save or skin mutates into slimy membrane in
1d4+1 minutes, unless cure disease is cast. Once
metamorphosis is complete, victim must remain
immersed or his skin will dry out, causing 2d6 hp
damage per turn. Heal can end this affliction.
¬¬ In water an aboleth can release a mucous cloud
three feet around its bulk. A victim pulled into
the cloud must make a death (poison) save or
thenceforth be unable to breathe air and subject
to asphyxia if removed from water (see Vol. III,
p. 263: Special Damage, asphyxia). Aboleths
use this cloud to grant their slaves the ability to
breathe water, albeit in smaller doses so as to effect
amphibious humanoid slaves.
¬¬ Mutant aboleths are believed to exist with other,
more insidious abilities.
