DÆMON, GREATER, CLASS VI (Undead Type 13)
No. Encountered: 1
Alignment: Chaotic Evil
Size: L
Movement: 20 (fly 60)
Dexterity: 17
Armour Class: −4
Hit Dice: 13
Attack Rate: 2/1 (weapon) or 1/1 (whip)
Damage: 4d6 (×2) or 1d6+3
Saving Throw: 10
Morale: 11
Experience Points: 5,000
Treasure Class: F
When (rarely) in their true forms, each class VI greater
dæmon stands 12 feet tall, with a wrinkled black hide,
18- to 20-foot bat wings, and a terrible visage: caprine
ears, a lion’s black mane, a wolf ’s fangs, and dead white
eyes under a ridged brow. However, these beings prefer
anonymity and oft take other forms. Class VI greater
dæmons each usually wield an Evil-aligned +3 long
sword, battle axe, or war hammer, which may have
other properties (per referee discretion). In its other
hand, the dæmon carries a barbed, nine-tailed whip.
When it fights, the dæmon immolates itself, flames
radiating five feet around it; it will use its whip to drag
opponents into this fiery radius.
Six class VI greater dæmons are known to exist, each
reputed to dwell in such locations as Saturn (or its
moons), the netherworld of Underborea, and of course
Hyperborea. Each is regarded as a dæmon prince in
its own right, answering only to Thaumagorga. In
æons past the dæmon princes warred against one
another, but at length held a conclave and forged a
nonaggression pact. Although they have distinct
agendas and personalities, each is prone to greed,
vanity, and a thirst for power. If beckoned, a class VI
greater dæmon might join an adventuring party to
obtain wealth or power, but it will seek to usurp control
and eliminate opposition. Men who take orders from
the dæmon in short order will become Evil themselves.
Special:
¬¬ 12-in-20 spell resistance versus CA 12 casters. For
every CA level less than 12, the chance-in-twenty
increases by one (+1) (see Vol. III, p. 261: Saving
Throw, spell resistance).
¬¬ Cold, electricity, fire, and gas attacks inflict
½ damage, or ¼ damage if save is made.
¬¬ +1 or better weapon to hit.
¬¬ Any successful hit with whip draws target into
dæmon’s flames for 3d6 hp fire damage per
round. Victim can escape with a test of strength or
dexterity (see Vol. I, p. 7: Attributes, strength and
dexterity).
¬¬ Can cast the following spells at will (though only
one at a time): cause fear (reverse of remove fear),
darkness, decipher language, detect invisibility, detect
magic, infrared vision, polymorph self, pyrotechnics,
suggestion, telekinesis, teleport (without error).
¬¬ Can dispel magic thrice per day, at CA 9 capacity.
¬¬ Once per day, can attempt to beckon another dæmon
to fight alongside it (as reverse of dismissal), with
4-in-6 chance of success; roll 1d6: On a 1–4, a class
IV greater dæmon is beckoned; on a 5–6, a class V
greater dæmon is beckoned. Alternatively, it can
attempt to summon 1d3 class xi lesser dæmons or
1d2 class xv lesser dæmons, with 5-in-6 chance of
success.
