GORGON
(Medusa) Gorgon Greater Gorgon
No. Encountered: 1 (1d2) 1
Alignment: Chaotic Evil Chaotic Evil
Size: M M
Movement: 30 (fly 30) 50 (fly 40)
Dexterity: 14 15
Armour Class: 5 3
Hit Dice: 4+4 6+6
Attack Rate: 3/1
(claw / claw / bite)
3/1
(claw / claw / bite)
Damage: 1d6 / 1d6 / 1d4+1 1d8 / 1d8 / 1d6+1
Saving Throw: 15 14
Morale: 8 10
Experience Points: 450 1,470
Treasure Class: P, Q (×10), X, Y Z
Oft called medusæ on account of that most famous of
gorgons, these accursed creatures have the heads and
torsos of alluringly curvaceous women, with serpentine
lower bodies. The gorgon’s “hair” is composed of
slender, writhing, venomous snakes. Its hands are of
bronze, and the pteropine wings projecting from its
shoulder blades are golden hued.
The sight of a gorgon turns men and other humanoids
to stone. Often gorgons will robe themselves and sit
so as to conceal their dæmonic attributes, tricking
men with the implied beauty of their features, only
to be petrified. Gorgons usually lead solitary lives,
sequestered on islands or in caves, though “sister” pairs
have been reported. Most gorgons speak the Common
tongue in addition to proto-Hellenic.
Greater gorgons are reputed to exist on the remotest
islands and in the deepest dungeons. They are said to
be faster, more powerful, more cunning, and of course
more lethal. These rare gorgons can sing a harpy’s
song, tricking victims to gaze into their eyes.
Special (all):
¬¬ Sight causes petrifaction unless transformation
save is made. Eye contact is automatic unless
the player specifies that his character is looking
elsewhere before seeing the revealed face. A mirror
can be used to view a gorgon without harm; the
gorgon turns to stone if tricked into seeing its
own reflexion. Fighting a gorgon with eyes averted
incurs a −2 penalty to attack rolls and armour class.
¬¬ +2 bonus to sorcery saves.
¬¬ On 1-in-4 chance per round, in addition to gorgon’s
normal claw / claw / bite routine, snakes on
gorgon’s head extend to attack collectively a single
creature within five feet, causing 1d6 hp damage
and delivering deadly venom; victim must make
death (poison) save or be paralyzed within 1d4
rounds and slain within 1d4 turns.
Special (greater gorgon):
¬¬ Petrifaction as a gorgon, except no saving throw
allowed.
¬¬ Can sing a harpy’s song: charms all within 60
feet who hear it, unless sorcery saves are made. The
saves are modified by willpower adjustment (see
Vol. I, p. 9: Attributes, wisdom), if applicable.
Charmed individuals stand dumbly and look into
the gorgon’s eyes if so commanded.
