GREAT RACE (Yithian)
No. Encountered: 1d6
Alignment: Lawful Evil
Size: L
Movement: 30
Dexterity: 8
Armour Class: 2
Hit Dice: 10
Attack Rate: 2/1 (claw / claw)
or 1/1 (weapon)
Damage: 1d6+1 / 1d6+1
(or per weapon)
Saving Throw: 12
Morale: 6
Experience Points: 2,800
Treasure Class: H, S, T (×2)
Members of this time-travelling, otherworldly species
present as iridescent cones, 10 feet high and 10 feet
wide at the base. Each has one ridged, scaly, and semielastic
snail-like foot, which expands and contracts to
allow locomotion along floors, walls, or ceilings with
equal ease. These alien beings are without garb, but
will hang satchels or knapsacks from the apices of their
conical trunks.
From the narrow apex of the creature’s cone project
four flexible, cylindrical members, each about
one foot thick and ridged, which can contract
or expand to a length of 10 feet. Two members
terminate in great claws or nippers; the third in
four trumpet-like appendages; and the fourth in
a yellowish, irregular globe, two feet in diameter,
with three black eyes along its equator. This globe
functions as the head and is surmounted by
four slender, grey stalks bearing flowerlike
appendages; from its nether side dangle
eight green tentacles, which the creature
uses to manipulate fine objects such as
writing implements.
The form described above is not the
original incarnation of the Great Race;
rather it is one of several species they
have occupied over the ages. These
weird, cone-shaped aliens fled from
the distant planet Yith. As time travellers,
they once dwelt on primordial Earth, for they were
in need of escape from their previous host species.
At length the Great Race would abandon the coneshaped
beings for intelligent beetles who eventually
supplant mankind, but on far-flung Hyperborea,
as the red sun burns its remaining fuel, still
they occupy the conical creatures.
The Great Race are scientists, assimilating knowledge
from sages, sorcerers, and the like. Via mental
projection they may possess men for months or even
years. The method is one of transferral; consequently,
the mind of the possessed occupies the weird cone
body of the possessor, usually located in a hidden
vault within the deeps of the Spiral Mountain Array,
or amongst their hidden centres of Underborea, where
they must contend with the dreaded mi-go. Always
they select men of higher learning for possession,
utilizing their hosts to further their own vast erudition.
Meantime, the mind of the possessed is subject to a
strange, disconcerting life amongst the Great Race,
adapting to life as a cone-shaped being from another
time and place.
N.B.: Glimpses of the Great Race’s weird runes,
curvilinear characters, and disconcerting geometric
patterns are believed to match those etched upon the
Great Obelisks, 500-foot pillars rising from the Rapids
at the End of the World. Few sane men have made this
fearful connexion.
Special:
¬¬ Typically wields a crystal-tipped iridium rod,
which shoots a 60-foot beam that can paralyze
(1d6+6 turns) or disintegrate victims; a device save is
allowed to resist, modified by defence adjustment, if
applicable (see Vol. I, p. 7: Attributes, dexterity).
¬¬ Can speak the language of any intelligent creature.
¬¬ Can cast the following spells at will (though only
one at a time): blink, dimension door, passwall,
teleport.
¬¬ Can cast temporal acceleration once per day.
¬¬ Can transfer mind into a host once per year. The
target must be seen; typically the Great Race use
technological devices that function as crystal
balls to view a target (see Vol. V, p. 473: Magical
Treasure, miscellaneous magic items). The target
must make a sorcery save or be possessed; the save is
modified by willpower adjustment (see Vol. I,
p. 9: Attributes, wisdom), if applicable. Possession
can last as long as seven years; anything longer
may be permanent and cause insanity (see Vol. III,
p. 264: Special Damage, madness). The mind of
the possessed occupies the body of the possessor
(typically confined or restricted in some way). By
means of a ritual, the possessor may return to its
original body; the possessed is likewise returned,
but typically suffers a gap in memory, unable to
recall his life amongst the Great Race. If either body
dies, return is impossible, and madness inevitable.
