PHOONGH
No. Encountered: 1
Alignment: Chaotic Evil
Size: L
Movement: 60
Dexterity: 17
Armour Class: −1
Hit Dice: 9+3
Attack Rate: 2/1 (slash / slash)
Damage: 2d4+4 / 2d4+4
Saving Throw: 10
Morale: 9
Experience Points: 1,450
Treasure Class: M, N, Q
The phoongh are pale grey, nine-foot-tall insectan
creatures of otherworldly origin. They present as
weird, bipedal grasshoppers (vaguely humanoid)
that typically garb themselves in dark, ceremonial
vestments; they oft wear broad hats and drape their
shoulders with long cloaks. How the phoongh
reproduce or whether in the depths of Underborea they
gather in numbers is unknown and the subject of wild
speculation amongst the learned and the mad, but all
reports from the surface relate encounters with solitary
phoongh.
The phoongh are creatures of mad craft and bizarre
caprice, and they pursue their inscrutable errands
in lonely places, attracted to ruins, caves, and places
of desolation. (The savage Kimmerian steppe riders
and Kimmeri-Kelts of the Fields of Vol claim they can
smell the phoongh and know where one has lingered.)
Their motivations are obscure, but their deadliness is
obvious. Phoongh kill out of whim, entertainment, or
simple reflex, and they oft play pointless tricks on the
unsuspecting before they attack.
Phoongh are strong and agile creatures. They possess
tough carapaces, and the brachial plates of their upper
limbs seem to be a source of pride; they will burnish
and file them. In combat they can attack savagely, oft
leaping madly as they fight, dancing amongst their
enemies; indeed, the best time to encounter a phoongh
is when other enemies are nearby, for the phoongh do
not discriminate amongst targets.
A phoongh will continue to live even when reduced
to −10 hit points or fewer. Fire, acid, or complete
destruction of the head is necessary to kill one, though
a dismembered phoongh slowly will desiccate and
die over the course of several days. A phoongh that is
not dismembered eventually will regenerate if left for
dead—yet these bizarre creatures have been known
simply to stop fighting and allow themselves to be
cut down. Whether this behaviour fulfils some inner
drive or completes another step in the plans of some
nameless god is unknowable, but the wise do not rely
on such an event.
Special:
¬¬ Once per day can emanate shadows in a
three-foot radius. Within the shadows they can
hide at 10-in-12 chance of success (see Vol. I, p. 21:
Classes, thief). Any target that passes within 10
feet of a successfully hidden phoongh is subject to a
single surprize backstab attack at a +4 bonus and ×4
base damage (i.e., 8d4+4 hp damage).
¬¬ Even when not using their emanate shadows ability,
phoongh are natural hide-and-strike predators;
chance to surprize opponents increased by 2-in-6.
¬¬ A phoongh can leap 30 feet from a standing start
(counted as part of its normal movement), leaping
once or twice per round (once per phase) or four
times if charging (see Vol. III, p. 254: Combat
Actions, movement); note that these leaps need
not be in a straight line. If not charging, the
phoongh can make its two attacks at any points
in its leaps, though (as
with aerial combat) its
opponents have the
opportunity to strike
back (see Vol. III,
p. 268: Aerial
Combat, aerial
melee combat).
When charging
(requiring at
least two leaps),
the phoongh
delivers a single
attack at the end
of its charge at
a +2 damage
bonus, though
with a −1 AC
penalty (see
Vol. III,
p. 249:
Combat
Actions,
melee).
