SCORPIOID of XIN
No. Encountered: 1d4 (5d8)
Alignment: Chaotic Evil
Size: L
Movement: 50
Dexterity: 16
Armour Class: 4
Hit Dice: 5
Attack Rate: 5/1 (blade / blade / pincer / pincer / sting)
Damage: 1d8 / 1d8 / 1d4 / 1d4 / 1d6
Saving Throw: 14
Morale: 9
Experience Points: 350*
Treasure Class: N (females); F, I
* Refer to p. 294: Table 122 for classed individuals.
Scorpioids are giant scorpions with humanoid—almost
human—foreparts, standing from eight to nine feet tall.
Their torsos mostly are covered in hard, black chitin.
They inhabit the plateau of Xin and are associated with
the deity Aurorus. How they serve this god of Chaos
is unknown, but haunted-looking travellers have told
of witnessing their inhuman rites and revels on nights
when auroræ light the sky above Xin.
Scorpioids are known to employ arms that they
hone from the pincers of their fallen kin. These black
chitinous blades are sharpened to scimitar-like
weapons. They also attack with their terrible pincers and
deadly tail stingers, a veritable onslaught of attacks for
the unprepared.
The mystic and recondite scorpioid society is
matriarchal. Female scorpioids choose their mates for
their strength and ferocity. Shortly after an agonizing
and nigh interminable mating ritual, the male scarcely
can avoid cannibalization by the dominant female. Once
a brood is born (typically consisting of six young), the
offspring will cling to their mother’s body for weeks.
Scorpioids have their own language of clicks, keens,
and whistles, and numerous meaningful components
of this language lie outside the realm of human
senses. Scorpioid females also are likely to speak any of
the Hellenic or Thracian dialects of Hyperborea and/or
the Common tongue, but their complex maxillofacial
architecture and the resonant chambers within their
chitin do not impart inflexion to human words.
Outside of Xin, scorpioids scarcely are observed except
in subterranean mazes or perhaps the spiral towers
of Khromarium’s “Old City”, where they are said to
seek sacred mysteries; they possibly may make use of
adventurers to further their clandestine schemes. In
extremely rare cases, atypical scorpioids of Xin have
been known to tolerate and even impart their secrets to
human monks. These scorpioids are reputed to be monks
themselves, some adopting the Neutral alignment.
Special:
¬¬ Immune to the fear effect and killing wail of
banshees; in fact, scorpioid lairs oft are found near
the haunted zone of a banshee.
¬¬ When sorcerous ultraviolet vision is in effect, a
scorpioid takes on a phosphorescent glow; all
attacks against it are at a +1 attack bonus.
¬¬ If both pincers hit, stinger attack is made at a +2
bonus on the attack roll.
¬¬ Stinger delivers deadly venom unless death (poison)
save is made, causing immediate loss of speech,
paralysis 1 round later, and death in 2d4 rounds.
Female scorpioids can lessen the concentration of
their venom; in such cases, a failed save results in
deathlike catalepsy for 2d6 turns.
¬¬ Some scorpioids
adopt the monk
class. They can
advance to 9th
level; for each
level beyond
5th, they add
1 hit die (d8)
to their
base 5 HD.
