SNAKE,
GIANT
Giant
Asp
Giant
Python
Giant
Spitting
Cobra
Giant
Water
Snake
No. Encountered: 1 (5d4) 1 1 1
Alignment: Neutral Neutral Neutral Neutral
Size: L L L L
Movement: 40 30 (swim 20) 30 30 (swim 40)
Dexterity: 9 8 12 8
Armour Class: 5 6 3 6
Hit Dice: 6 5 8 3
Attack Rate: 1/1 (bite) 1/1 (bite) 1/1 (bite) 1/1 (bite)
Damage: 1d6 1d4 1d6 1d6
Saving Throw: 14 14 13 15
Morale: 9 8 9 6
Experience Points: 500 300 1,080 95
Treasure Class: — — — —
Snakes of great size inhabit the dark corners of
Hyperborea; whether their prodigious length is a
natural development or the result of sorcery is a matter
of conjecture. Except on some islands at the Rim of the
World, these reptiles are less active during the winter
years.
The giant asp is a dark, narrow-hooded cobra of about
12-foot length. These dungeon-dwelling reptiles are
notorious for their deadly venom. In the darkest pits
they congregate up to a score, writhing together.
The giant python is an enormous snake of from 20-
to 40-foot length, with scales of alternating colours
and patterns (oft spiroid), depending on its native
environment. They will bite and latch on to their
prey and then constrict the victim until he ceases to
struggle. Many have a taste for man. A pale grey-white
species with blue and yellow markings is said to thrive
in wintery conditions.
The giant spitting cobra is a solitary creature up to
30 feet long and nearly exclusive to dungeon depths.
The scales of these monstrous reptiles are hard as iron.
They are reputed to possess quasi-intelligence; some
sages posit they are former Ixian priests of Yig (Apep)
transmogrified.
The giant water snake is a huge black reptile of up to
30-foot length that thrives in fresh water or brackish
marshes. Water snakes emerge to breathe about once
per six hours. Their bite injects slow-acting paralytic
venom. Often a snake will retreat after biting a victim
and lurk nearby, awaiting the poison to take effect so it
then can consume its prey.
Special (giant asp):
¬¬ Bite injects venom thrice per day. Victim must
make death (poison) save or die at once; even if save
is successful, 6d6 hp damage is sustained (a terrible
blood-burning sensation). Site of wound is
purple and swollen; may become septic if
victim survives (cure disease heals).
Special (giant python):
¬¬ Infrared vision (as the spell) to 60-foot range.
¬¬ Upon successful bite, giant python constricts
prey for 2d6 hp damage per round. Victim
can attempt to escape via extraordinary feat
of strength or dexterity (see Vol. I,
p. 7: Attributes, strength and dexterity).
Otherwise, allies whose strength totals at
least 75 can remove snake in 1d4 rounds.
¬¬ Whilst constricting prey, giant python suffers
a −2 AC penalty (AC 8).
Special (giant spitting cobra):
¬¬ Once per day can spit venom to range of 30,
aiming for target’s eyes. If venom hits, victim
must make death (poison) save or be blinded.
Only cure blindness restores sight. Great helm
(typically included with field plate and full plate)
blocks venom on 3-in-6 chance.
¬¬ Bite injects venom thrice per day. Victim must
make death (poison) save or die in 1d6+6 rounds.
Special (giant water snake):
¬¬ Bite injects venom thrice per day. Victim must
make death (poison) save or become numb-skinned
after 1d6 rounds; face muscles also fail to actuate,
and speech is garbled. Paralysis takes effect 1d4
turns later and lasts 1d6+6 turns.
