SNAKE-MAN
No. Encountered: 1 (2d12)
Alignment: Lawful Evil
Size: M
Movement: 20 (slither 40)
Dexterity: 10
Armour Class: 6
Hit Dice: 2+2
Attack Rate: 1/1 (bite or weapon)
Damage: 1d4 (or per weapon)
Saving Throw: 16
Morale: 9
Experience Points: 107*
Treasure Class: A, S, T
* Refer to p. 294: Table 122 for classed individuals.
Long before man struggled up from the lowly depths
of apedom, this semi-anthropoid race of reptiles ruled
the continent of Hyperborea. They built vast cities of
crystal and stone, and throughout millennia they knew
conflict with the crab-men, elder things, fish-men,
Great Race, and mi-go. Whither the snake-men, not
even the wisest of sages can say, for their epoch ended
long before the rise of the Hyperborean race of Old
Earth. They slithered to the bowels of Underborea, like
worms of the earth, and for untold ages went unseen.
But lo, in the most unhallowed corners of Hyperborea,
the hated snake-men have materialized, taking the
guise of sages and assuming advisory positions to
knights and nobles, kings and overlords.
In their true forms, snake-men have vaguely human
bodies, though with snake heads and long tails; too,
they are covered in reticulated scales of variable
colour. They may ambulate as men do, though with
awkward, swaying gaits, but are faster when they
drop to their bellies and slither. Snake-men are highly
intelligent, and they speak in a sibilant tongue that
man cannot duplicate; only with specially concocted
potions can snake-men speak the languages of men.
They are acclaimed as brilliant scientists, sorcerers,
dweomercræfters, and toxicologists. Most snake-men
venerate Yig, “The Great Serpent”.
Special:
¬¬ Infrared vision (as the spell) to 60-foot range.
¬¬ Can alter self at will (as the spell).
¬¬ Snakes and giant snakes obey the will of snakemen
without question; thus snake-men oft will
have asps, spitting cobras, or vipers in their
presence.
¬¬ Bite delivers venom; make death (poison) save or
suffer additional 1d6 hp damage, with paralysis
occurring within 1d4 rounds for a duration of 2d6
turns.
¬¬ Most snake-men adopt a class; typical examples
include magician, illusionist, necromancer, monk,
priest, and assassin. They can advance to 11th level;
for each level beyond 2nd, they add 1 hit die (d8) to
their base 2+2 HD.
