SPIDER, GIANT Giant Black
Widow
Giant Crab
Spider
Giant Ogrefaced
Spider
Giant Phase
Spider
Giant Trapdoor
Spider
Giant Wolf
Spider
No. Encountered: 1d4 1d4+1 1d6 1d6 1d6 1d6
Alignment: Neutral Neutral Neutral Chaotic Evil Neutral Neutral
(or Chaotic Evil)
Size: M M L L L L
Movement: 30 40 30 50 30 50
Dexterity: 12 12 10 14 13 14
Armour Class: 6 7 6 7 6 5
Hit Dice: 3 2 3 5+4 3+2 4
Attack Rate: 1/1 (bite) 1/1 (bite) 1/1 (bite) 1/1 (bite) 1/1 (bite) 1/1 (bite)
Damage: 2d6 1d8 2d4 1d6 1d8 2d6
Saving Throw: 15 16 15 14 15 15
Morale: 7 7 7 8 7 8
Experience Points: 161 32 167 740 105 255
Treasure Class: A C D E C C
The giant black widow is a six-foot-long arachnid,
black with a red or orange “hourglass” mark on the
abdomen. These spiders weave tangled webs of 100 ×
100 feet or more. A black widow can sense when a living
creature touches its web and at once will move in for
the kill. Encountered black widows are always female;
males are the size of a man’s fist and unaggressive.
The giant crab spider is a five-foot-long arachnid that
does not use webs to capture prey; rather, it lies in
wait and pounces. Crab spiders’ bodies are somewhat
flat, and (unlike most spiders) their front legs angle
outward, giving them the appearance of crabs; too, they
can move sidewise and backwards as easily as forwards.
Their chameleonic ability allows them to blend with
their environs.
The giant ogre-faced spider is an eight-foot-long
arachnid renowned for its face, which is reminiscent
of a mountain ape—specifically its disturbingly large
eyes, one twice the size of the other. From trees, crags,
or abandoned buildings, it hangs by a strand of dry
silk, holding its web net with its four front legs. As prey
passes below, it stretches open the net, casting it over
and enveloping the prey.
The giant phase spider is a huge arachnid that
appears as a seven-foot-long black tarantula, though
it is something more: At will it can shift from one
reality to another, “phasing” to and from worlds such
as Hyperborea to its Æthereal realm of origin. Phase
spiders are web builders, constructing sticky vertical or
horizontal snares. Multiple phase spiders communicate
by means of a haunting whistle, known to raise the
hackles of dogs and to inspire skittishness in horses.
Sages posit that phase spiders might originate from the
same dimension as Kraken, “The Dimensional Dweller”.
N.B.: A variation of this species is said to dwell in the
Plain of Leng and the canyons of the Leng Plateau.
These are known as the purple spiders of Leng, as their
black fur is spotted with purple rings. These creatures
prey upon Esquimaux, men of Leng, and other natives.
The giant trapdoor spider is a seven-foot-long
arachnid that digs a burrow in the ground, which it
covers with a lid or trapdoor built of mud and silk,
some folding open from the middle. When prey passes,
the spider springs out to attack. Its bite delivers venom
that may be deadly. Giant trapdoor spiders’ burrows are
tubular and can be as long as 75 feet. They are lined with
silk webs and may have branches that serve as extra
hiding places; inside the burrows are also their nests.
The giant wolf spider is a nine-foot-long arachnid
that thrives in various environs. Aggressive hunters,
these spiders are notorious for chasing down prey
and pouncing on it after emerging from trees, or from
under rocks or shrubs. They are brownish in colour,
with long, stout, hairy legs and four pairs of eyes, one
set being much larger than the others. They have large,
powerful jaws with paralytic venom. A female might
be seen carrying on its back a large, grey-white silk sac
filled with hundreds of eggs.
N.B.: Whether it be the result of foul sorcery or
dæmonic corruption, intelligent giant wolf spiders are
reputed to exist, almost always female. These talking
spiders are Evil creatures that derive sadistic pleasure
in cruelty, and some exhibit a lust for treasure. Often
they are bound to the task of guardianship of a place or
thing.
Special (all except giant crab spider):
¬¬ If entrapped in a web, a man can break free in
19 rounds − strength score; e.g., 3 rounds with 16 ST.
Special (giant black widow):
¬¬ Bite victim must make death (poison) save or
be paralyzed, dying in 1 turn. Wound becomes
necrotic in any event, with 3-in-6 chance of
infection unless cure disease is cast. After 30 days
victim must make another save or die; otherwise,
infection subsides.
Special (giant crab spider):
¬¬ Chameleonic ability increases chance to surprize
by 2-in-6.
¬¬ Can move across walls and ceilings at normal MV.
¬¬ Bite victim must make death (poison) save or suffer
additional 1d8 hp damage.
Special (giant ogre-faced spider):
¬¬ Chance to surprize increased by 1-in-6 when
attacking from above.
¬¬ Throws web net over a single Small or Medium
victim. If victim is surprized, success is automatic;
if not surprized, avoidance save is allowed to evade.
¬¬ Bite victim experiences extreme swelling and skin
ulcerations, coupled with intense joint pain that
limits physical activity (½ MV; −2 penalty to attack
rolls, damage, and saving throws). Death ensues
in 6d6 turns unless death (poison) save is made;
swelling subsides in 1d4+6 hours.
Special (giant phase spider):
¬¬ Phases before and after attacking; opponent must
make a successful test of dexterity (see Vol. I, p. 7:
Attributes, dexterity) to attempt a counterattack.
¬¬ Bite is highly venomous; make death (poison) save
or die.
Special (giant trapdoor spider):
¬¬ Chance to surprize increased by 2-in-6 when
pouncing from trapdoor nest.
¬¬ Bite victim must make death (poison) save or suffer
1 hp damage per round for 2d6 rounds.
Special (giant wolf spider):
¬¬ Bite victim must make death (poison) save or be
paralyzed in 1d2 rounds, lasting 2d6 turns. Wound
becomes necrotic in any event, with 3-in-6 chance
of infection unless cure disease is cast. After 30 days
victim must make another save or die; otherwise,
infection subsides.
