TOAD Giant Toad Ice Toad
No. Encountered: 1d6 1d2 (2d6)
Alignment: Neutral Neutral
Size: L S
Movement: 20 (hop 50) 10 (hop 20)
Dexterity: 10 10
Armour Class: 5 9
Hit Dice: 3+2 ¼
Attack Rate: 1/1 (bite) —
Damage: 1d6 —
Saving Throw: 15 17
Morale: 6 4
Experience Points: 195 9
Treasure Class: — —
Giant toads are enormous, man-eating amphibians
that have stout legs and thick, warty skin. They weigh
as much as 700 pounds and are up to 10 feet in length.
They can shoot their sticky tongues up to 18 feet, and
their skin is poisonous to the touch. These creatures
also possess camouflage and have a taste for the flesh
of man, whom they can swallow whole. They dwell
in caverns, dungeons, forests, and swamps; a white
variety also thrives in arctic environments.
Ice toads are tiny creatures, white as snow, with
bright blue warts and vivid cerulean eyes. They are
said to thrive in the coldest environments, their blood
unfreezing.
Special (giant toad):
¬¬ If lying in wait, camouflage increases chance to
surprize by 1-in-6.
¬¬ If the toad’s skin is touched, a death (poison) save
must be made or the victim will suffer 1d8 hp
damage. Unless the secretion immediately is wiped
away (with something suitable, as a cloth), damage
will persist every round at 1 hp less than the
previous round (i.e., if the initial damage is 7 hp,
then the next round is 6 hp, followed by 5 hp, and
so forth), until the result is 0 hp damage.
N.B.: 1-in-6 giant toads has deadly toxin; a failed
save results in paralysis, followed by death in 1
turn.
¬¬ On a natural 20 attack roll, the tongue reels in and
swallows victim whole, inflicting 1d6 hp damage
per round thereafter; after 3 rounds, the victim may
asphyxiate (see Vol. III, p. 263: Special Damage,
asphyxia). Swallowed prey can cut its way out with
a WC 1–3 blade, with an attack penalty equal to
the weapon class. If 6 hp damage is inflicted from
within, a large enough rent is cut for escape.
Special (ice toad):
¬¬ Immune to the effects of normal cold to −15°F; they
must burrow to survive colder temperatures.
¬¬ Camouflage provides 6-in-12 chance to hide in snow
(see Vol. I, p. 21: Classes, thief).
¬¬ If ice toad is bitten or licked, a death (poison) save
must be made or the victim suffers 1d4 hp damage.
Ice toad toxin does not cause continuing damage.
A toad produces enough toxin to coat a dagger
when provoked; enterprising sorcerers are known
to use their toad familiars to envenom their blades
or fill a phial with a single dose once per day. The
toxin evaporates after 6 turns or a single successful
strike; if bottled, it remains efficacious for 24 hours.
