CRAB-MAN OVERLORD
No. Encountered: 1:20
Alignment: Neutral
Size: L
Movement: 30
Dexterity: 12
Armour Class: 0
Hit Dice: 6+6
Attack Rate: 2/1 (pincer / pincer) or 3/1 (laser rifle)
Damage: 2d6 / 2d6 or 3d6 (×3)
Saving Throw: 14
Morale: 10
Experience Points: 450 (or 750 with laser rifle)
Treasure Class: N (×5), Q
Reputed to originate from the ocean planet Poseidenos,
this highly technological alien race builds cities from
chitinous materials deep below the sea; likewise are
their water-filled spacecraft constructed. Crab-men are
aquatic, though resilient enough to thrive out of water
for as long as three days. At the seacoast, crab-men
typically are encountered in small hunting parties, but
their undersea cities are said to contain hundreds. They
speak a strange, clicking tongue, enhanced by limited-range
empathy.
Crab-men are vaguely humanoid in shape. The head
is a disc-shaped carapace from three to four feet
in diameter. The abdomen is perpendicular to the
head, vertically oriented like a humanoid torso, with
exoskeletal arms extending from shoulder joints; the
arms terminate in great claws capable of rending flesh
and bone. Four exoskeletal legs project from the bottom
of the abdomen, each treble-jointed and tapering to
points on which the creatures balance themselves
and ambulate sideways. Crab-man overlords are
physically dominating examples that naturally assume
positions of leadership in the crab-man hierarchy.
These robust specimens are not only superior
combatants, but they also possess thicker exoskeletons.
The motives of this strange species are unknown, but
they are worshipped (in a sense) by certain Picts and
Esquimaux, who dye their skin red or blue and don
armour and headgear to appear more like crab-men.
Curiously, these crab-Picts and crab-Esquimaux despise
each other, each believing that they are the chosen of
the crab-men. The more privileged of these idolizers
understand the basics of crab-man speech, but cannot
actually articulate it; hence they might be used as
translators.
Special:
¬¬ Crab-man warriors and overlords each are fitted
with a gauntlet-like laser rifle over one claw, built
so that the claw is inserted, and the pincer ends
manipulate the trigger mechanism (a function a
man is unable to mimic). The laser rifle is shot at a
+2 attack bonus, causes 3d6 hp damage, and may be
fired thrice per round (each at a single target) to a
range of 150 (sans range penalties). A typical laser
rifle cartridge has 144 charges.
