DÆMON, SUBLUNARY, SUCCUBUS
(Enchantress Dæmon) (Undead Type 13)
No. Encountered: 1
Alignment: Chaotic Evil
Size: M
Movement: 40 (fly 60)
Dexterity: 17
Armour Class: 0
Hit Dice: 6+6
Attack Rate: 2/1 (claw / claw)
Damage: 1d6 / 1d6
Saving Throw: 14
Morale: 9
Experience Points: 1,590
Treasure Class: I, Q
These dæmons control men through seduction.
Typically they ensorcel men of greatness, as they crave
power, fame, and wealth. Succubi present as beautiful
women, strikingly voluptuous, with pale skin, silken
hair, and eyes to melt the will of men. In their true
forms, they have vampiric fangs, ophidian tails,
taloned fingers, and pteropine wings of eight or more
feet extending from their shoulder blades. Rarely will
succubi reveal their true forms, typically when greatly
offended, attacked, or uncloaked for what they are.
Often succubi will infiltrate the dreams of their victims,
tantalizing with coy and elusive glimpses of their rare
beauty. When at length the enchantment takes hold,
nonchalantly the succubus will appear in the waking
life of the ensorcelled (the woman of his dreams, as
it were). The victim will fawn over the woman and
lavish upon her gifts rare, exotic, and expensive—until
she tires of him. (Some sages posit the existence of
incubi—male counterparts that lie with women to
spawn their dæmonic progeny—but such speculation
remains unverified.)
Special:
¬¬ 11-in-20 spell resistance versus CA 12 casters. For
every CA level less than 12, the chance-in-twenty
increases by one (+1) (see Vol. III, p. 261: Saving
Throw, spell resistance).
¬¬ Cold, electricity, fire, and gas attacks inflict
½ damage, or ¼ damage if save is made.
¬¬ +1 or better weapon to hit.
¬¬ Can become Æthereal at will, insubstantially
traversing interstices betwixt particles of matter.
¬¬ Can shapechange to any humanoid form at will (see
Vol. I, p. 65: Cleric Subclasses, druid).
¬¬ Can cast the following spells at will (though only
one at a time): charm person, clairaudience, darkness,
extrasensory perception, infrared vision, suggestion,
teleport (without error).
¬¬ Once per day, can attempt to beckon a dæmonic
servant (as reverse of dismissal), with 2-in-6 chance
of success. Roll 1d4: On a 1–3, a class IV greater
dæmon is beckoned; a roll of 4 beckons a class VI
greater dæmon.
¬¬ When a target for beguilement is selected, the
succubus must obtain a personal possession
from that one. The spell is cast whilst the target
slumbers. The target, who must be no more than
one mile away, must make a sorcery save or come
under the succubus’ spell. The save is modified by
willpower adjustment (see Vol. I, p. 9: Attributes,
wisdom), if applicable.
