DÆMON, SUBLUNARY, BROWN JENKIN
(Dæmonic Familiar) (Undead Type 13)
No. Encountered: 1
Alignment: Chaotic Evil
Size: S
Movement: 60 (leap 60)
Dexterity: 18
Armour Class: 0
Hit Dice: 2+2
Attack Rate: 1/1 (bite)
Damage: 1d4
Saving Throw: 16
Morale: 7
Experience Points: 191
Treasure Class: —
A brown jenkin is sent by Thaumagorga (or one of
his six dæmon princes) to serve only the wickedest
sorcerers. Its mandate is to encourage its master to
greater deeds of depravity and Evil. A brown jenkin
appears as a small animal (such as a cat, lap dog,
piglet, or rat), but it will have disturbingly human
characteristics as well: upright posture, hands instead
of paws, and a subtly human cast to its face. In fact,
some sages believe that a brown jenkin is, in some
revolting way, the child of the sorcerer it serves.
Once the brown jenkin is accepted as a familiar by the
sorcerer, its master gains all the benefits of 1 additional
level and the same spell resistance as the familiar itself.
These powers are lost if the familiar and master are
separated by more than one mile. If the brown jenkin
dies, then the master immediately will lose 2 levels of
experience, with XP reduced to the halfway point of the
resulting level.
Once per day (typically at midnight) the brown jenkin
must be fed the blood of its master in the same
manner that an infant suckles, biting the master’s
arm or leg and causing 1 hp damage. Should this need
be neglected, the familiar will go at large in search
of blood, victimizing the most helpless creature it
can locate. A brown jenkin feels no true loyalty to its
master and readily will betray him in order to serve a
wickeder or more powerful sorcerer instead, should the
opportunity arise.
N.B.: A brown jenkin does not replace the standard
familiar associated with magicians and witches;
however, the brown jenkin may prove jealous of other
familiars. In fact, the brown jenkin is wont to play cruel
(potentially deadly) tricks on the magician’s or witch’s
familiar.
Special:
¬¬ Can hide and move silently on 11-in-12 chance of
success (see Vol. I, pp. 21–23: Classes, thief).
¬¬ Can make preternatural leaps of up to 60 feet and
climb any surface with no chance of falling.
¬¬ 5-in-20 spell resistance versus CA 12 casters. For
every CA level less than 12, the chance-in-twenty
increases by one (+1) (see Vol. III, p. 261: Saving
Throw, spell resistance).
¬¬ Cold, electricity, fire, and gas attacks inflict
½ damage, or no damage if save is made. Because of
its partly mundane nature, holy oil / water inflicts
only ½ damage on a brown jenkin.
¬¬ +1 or better weapon to hit.
¬¬ Drains victim of blood for 1d4 hp damage per
round following a successful hit; after 12 hp are
drained, the sated brown jenkin will slink away.
¬¬ Can cast the following spells at will (though only
one at a time): detect good, detect invisibility, detect
magic.
¬¬ Can cast suggestion once per day.
¬¬ Once per month, the brown jenkin can contact
otherworldly being (as the spell) and ask as many as
three questions. The answers may or may not be
true, but always will be calculated to inspire some
Evil course of action by the brown jenkin’s master.
This connexion carries no risk of insanity.
