FISH-MAN
(Deep Dweller, Deep One)
No. Encountered: 2d6 (2d4×10)
Alignment: Chaotic Evil
Size: M
Movement: 40 (swim 80)
Dexterity: 9
Armour Class: 5
Hit Dice: 2+2
Attack Rate: 2/1 (claw / claw) or 1/1 (weapon)
Damage: 1d4+1 / 1d4+1 (or per weapon)
Saving Throw: 16
Morale: 8
Experience Points: 41
Treasure Class: A
These ichthyic, otherworldly humanoids
have oily, grey-green skin, with jaundiced
underbellies and backs ridged with scales.
They have anthropoid bodies and piscine
heads with round, bulging eyes that
never blink. Their necks are folded with
gill slits, and their long, webbed paws are
taloned black. Their long legs with inverted
knee joints effect a hopping gait, though
some ambulate on all fours. For every 10
fish-men there is 1 sub-chief, a superior
specimen with leadership ability; for
every 50 there is 1 chieftain, the largest of
fish-men, with a thicker hide and superior
fighting capacity.
Oft referred to as deep ones or deep dwellers,
this ultra-telluric species is millions of
years old, having known conflict with
crab-men, elder things, and snakemen;
their provenance is speculated to
be Ouranos or Poseidenos. In Hyperborea
they inhabit subaqueous cities of alien
architecture, constructed millennia
ago; their Shangri-La, as it were, is lost
R’lyeh. Fish-men are disciples of sleeping
Kthulhu, though they oft will supplicate
Mother Hydra (an otherworldly hydra
that roams the Hyperborean Sea) or Father
Dagon (her mate, a 20-foot-tall fish-man of
prodigious power).
Fish-men have slowly degenerated, yet
struggle to persist, and in mankind have
found a vessel of compatibility: When
fish-men breed with humans, a hybrid
is produced that appears human but will
metamorphose into a fish-man at puberty. Some hybrids might
never transform, but exhibit fish-man characteristics: Their heads
elongate, their necks shorten, their eyes bulge, their skin moistens,
and they lose their hair. To the ignorant, these traits might be
viewed as the by-product of inbreeding. Seaside towns and villages
are typical targets for such breeding and assimilation.
Special:
¬¬ Amphibious; can function on land or sea but must
immerse in water at least once per week.
¬¬ Can track by scent at 10-in-12 chance of success (see
Vol. I, p. 26: Fighter Subclasses, barbarian).
¬¬ Wide field of vision reduces chance to be surprized
by 1-in-6.
¬¬ Fish-men wield javelins, spears, tridents, or special
underwater crossbows. Sub-chiefs and chieftains
have mastery of one or two weapons, respectively
(+1 to attack and damage rolls, increased attack
rate, etc.; see Vol. I, p. 112: Weapon Skill, weapon
mastery).
¬¬ Fish-man shamans conform to sub-chief
statistics. They can advance as high as 7th level; for
each level beyond 4th, they add 1 hit die (d8) to their
base 4+4 HD.
