LICH
(Undead Type 12)
No. Encountered: 1
Alignment: Lawful Evil
Size: M
Movement: 20
Dexterity: 7
Armour Class: 0
Hit Dice: 12
Attack Rate: 1/1 (claw)
Damage: 1d10
Saving Throw: 11
Morale: 11
Experience Points: 4,300
Treasure Class: U
A lich is the mummified body of a
powerful sorcerer, knight, overlord,
or king who chose a path to (or
was made to suffer) unspeakable
atrocities. Imbued with the power of
dæmonkind, liches are gaunt, fleshless
undead who wear tattered robes or sere
cloth gowns, oft with golden crowns
set with such gems as sapphires and
orange rubies. Too, their taloned
fingers are laden with glimmering
gems, and their eyes burn like coals
of hellfire. These dread souls know
naught but burning malevolence. They
are possessed of high intelligence;
through their dogged machinations,
they have been known to control the
fates of cities and nations from their
lofty perches in castles or towers of
stone.
Liches crave power and delight in
cruelty of a most sadistic species.
However, some are shells of their
former selves, walking open and
deserted lands seemingly without
purpose until at length they chance
upon prey; others are of epochs so long
past, their memories so faded, that
they are disconnected even from their
own wickedness and will approach
and then pass potential victims. Liches
always are encountered alone, but one
may ride a nightmare as a mount.
N.B.: The riches held by a lich (e.g.,
crown, rings) typically amount to no
less than 5,000 gp in value, but may be
cursed in some fashion as the referee
might conceive.
Special:
¬¬ At the sight of a lich, any creature with fewer than 6 HD must
make a sorcery save, failure indicating it flees in panic (d6, 1–3) or
is paralyzed with fear (d6, 4–6). The save is modified by willpower
adjustment (see Vol. I, p. 9: Attributes, wisdom), if applicable.
¬¬ Immune to poison, paralysis, fear, polymorph spells, and cold-,
electricity-, or death-based magic; also unaffected by the spells of
any sorcerer of CA 5 or lower.
¬¬ +1 or better weapon to hit.
¬¬ Any victim struck by a lich must make a death save or become
paralyzed for 2d6 turns.
¬¬ Whether or not they functioned as sorcerers in life, liches
are imbued with the sorcery ability of a 12th-level magician or
necromancer. The referee can select spells accordingly
(5 × level 1, 5 × level 2, 4 × level 3, 4 × level 4, 3 × level 5, 2 × level 6),
or use the following default selections:
÷÷ Level 1: decipher language, detect magic, identify, protection from
good, shocking grasp
÷÷ Level 2: darkness ×2, ray of enfeeblement ×2, summon dæmon I
÷÷ Level 3: dispel magic, hold person, lightning bolt, slow
÷÷ Level 4: bestow curse, dimension door, mirror, mirror, polymorph
other
÷÷ Level 5: beckon, cloudkill, magic jar
÷÷ Level 6: disintegrate, freezing sphere
