LOTUS WOMAN
No. Encountered: 3d4
Alignment: Neutral
Size: M
Movement: 20
Dexterity: 12
Armour Class: 6
Hit Dice: 6
Attack Rate: 2/1 (lash / lash)
Damage: 1d4 / 1d4
Saving Throw: 14
Morale: 8
Experience Points: 700
Treasure Class: I
In remote corners of Hyperborea, at the
outskirts of swamps and marshlands,
dwell the lotus women, vegetal vampires
whose lamenting siren songs beguile men
and other intelligent humanoids. Lotus
women present as beautiful, voluptuous
women whose skin tone is a subtle purple,
light pink, or pearl white with speckles of
purple and/or pink. Their hair is composed
of thin rubbery stalks, green and somewhat
bulbous where it meets the scalp, and their
pale, fibrous fingers can unfurl ribbons,
extending up to three feet, with which they
lash their prey.
Lotus women ensconce themselves in
enormous, bowl-shaped lotuses, from six
to eight feet in diameter, of hues that match
their skin. Whether these giant flowers are extensions
of the lotus women or a separate species with which
they share symbiosis is a matter of conjecture. Lotus
women can leave their host flowers, but never do they
stray more than 50 feet, and at night they always return
to their respective blossoms, which enclose them until
sunup. When a lotus woman beguiles prey, she will take
him into her blossom to feed. Often when one lotus
woman reels in prey, others will surround her, licking
their lips, begging and pleading for a taste.
Special:
¬¬ Each lotus woman’s voice can charm one creature
within 60 feet who hears it, unless a sorcery
save is made; the save is modified by willpower
adjustment (see Vol. I, p. 9: Attributes, wisdom),
if applicable. A charmed individual is compelled
to approach the lotus woman, who extends her
fingers, enwraps the victim, and reels him in for
feeding. Slowly the victim is drained of 1 hp per
turn. N.B.: Multiple lotus women might target one
victim, vying for the same lunch.
¬¬ Subject to plant-affecting spells.
¬¬ Fire inflicts ×1.5 damage.
¬¬ If host flower is destroyed, lotus woman suffers 3d6
hp damage; subsequently she must establish a new
host flower, or die within 48 hours.
