MAN of LENG (Satyr)
No. Encountered: 1d6 (3d6)
Alignment: Neutral
Size: M
Movement: 60
Dexterity: 15
Armour Class: 5
Hit Dice: 5
Attack Rate: 1/1 (gore) or 3/2 (weapon)
Damage: 2d6+2 (or per weapon +1)
Saving Throw: 14
Morale: 10
Experience Points: 525
Treasure Class: S, T, U
Men of Leng stand from six to seven feet tall, with the
naked torsos of men, the hoofed legs of goats, and the
spiral horns of rams. Their legs and forearms are thick
with grey-white fur, and so too do their long manes and
beards grow. Their eyes are sky-blue,
their ruddy faces folded with many
wrinkles.
These enigmatic creatures
thrive in harsh and
unforgiving tundra. If men
of Leng speak, they never
have revealed this capacity to
mankind. Instead they convey
emotions with panpipes,
their haunting melodies
perhaps serving as some
species of empathic
language, but also they
communicate much with
their body language and facial
expressions.
Men of Leng ride leaper camels, typically
bearing spears and composite short
bows; when they cross the tundra, beasts
and men alike are driven with fear.
Notwithstanding, the sorcery of certain
bards is believed to derive from these
strange creatures, who are reputed to
take precocious young humans under their
tutelage for a year or more; such individuals
oftest fail to remember their time with the
men of Leng after returning to civilization.
Men of Leng are held to venerate Aurorus,
“The Shining One”, but their piping is
believed to tap vibrations associated with
Azathoth.
Special:
¬¬ 7-in-20 spell resistance versus CA 12 casters. For
every CA level less than 12, the chance-in-twenty
increases by one (+1) (see Vol. III p. 261: Saving
Throw, spell resistance).
¬¬ Mastery of one weapon as selected by the referee
(+1 to attack and damage rolls, increased attack
rate, etc.; see Vol. I, p. 112: Weapon Skill, weapon
mastery).
¬¬ With panpipes, can produce any of the following
spell-like effects in a 60-foot radius: cause fear
(reverse of remove fear), charm person, inflict
madness, sleep, suggestion. Each effect functions as
the respective spell and is negated by a successful
sorcery save.
¬¬ Each man of Leng has the sorcery ability of an
8th-level bard. The referee can select spells
accordingly (1 each of druid and illusionist spells
levels 1–4), or use the following default selections:
÷÷ Level 1: influence normal fire; auditory glamour
÷÷ Level 2: cure light wounds; cause deafness
÷÷ Level 3: hold animal; hallucinatory terrain
÷÷ Level 4: them; dispel magic
