ORC CHIEFTAIN
(Dæmon-Pict)
No. Encountered: 1:30
Alignment: Lawful Evil
Size: M
Movement: 40
Dexterity: 12
Armour Class: 6
Hit Dice: 5
Attack Rate: 3/2 (weapon)
Damage: (per weapon +2)
Saving Throw: 14
Morale: 9
Experience Points: 150
Treasure Class: M (×3)
These despicable humanoids are the unhallowed
progeny of babi-ngepet (“swine dæmons”) and an
abominable tribe of half-blood Picts. They are stocky,
short-legged, thick-boned, and heavily muscled, but
their features are horribly disfigured and oft porcine,
with pronounced lower canine teeth. In the wilderness
they are largely nocturnal, but in subterranean lairs not
necessarily so.
Orcs are temperamental and prone to infighting, but
under a strong leader they are capable of exceptional
obedience. They are a violent species, killing for
pleasure, and they relish in torturing and burning
their victims; too, they are notorious slavers. Orcs
are intelligent enough to manufacture weapons and
armour and perform other feats of simple engineering,
but their craftsmanship is generally inferior to human
standards; hence, a suit of orcish plate mail might
provide AC 4 instead of AC 3. (Orcs otherwise have
natural AC 6 from their thick hides.) Orcs speak their
own language (Orcish) and oft a crude form of the
Common tongue of man; some can speak a smattering
of Pictish.
Hunting parties and patrols usually number 1–6 orcs.
Typical tribes comprise 10–80, and large tribes might
total 50–500 orcs; in the City-State of Orcust, orcs
number in the thousands. There will be 1 lieutenant
for every 10 orcs, 1 captain for every 20 orcs, and
1 chieftain for every 30 orcs. Chieftains are seven-foottall
humanoids, intelligent and cruel.
Special:
¬¬ Infrared vision (as the spell) to 60-foot range.
¬¬ −1 attack penalty when exposed to bright light.
¬¬ Tribes of 100+ orcs have a 2-in-6 chance to include a
shaman, who can advance as high as 5th level;
for each level beyond 1st, they add 1 hit die (d8) to
their base 1 HD.
¬¬ Weapon mastery in one or two weapons (+1 to attack
and damage rolls, increased attack rate, etc.; see
Vol. I, p. 112: Weapon Skill, weapon mastery).
