REMORHAZ
No. Encountered: 1 (1d2)
Alignment: Neutral
Size: L
Movement: 40
Dexterity: 17
Armour Class: 0
Hit Dice: 10
Attack Rate: 1/1 (bite)
Damage: 5d6
Saving Throw: 12
Morale: 11
Experience Points: 2,650
Treasure: F
The remorhaz are reputed to be the progeny of
Yikkorth, “The Ashen Worm”. Their ridged scales are ice
blue in colour, with pale blue spine ridges and putrid
yellow underbellies. Some remorhaz are reported to
present with fuzzy white wool bristling from their
scales during the long Hyperborean winter years.
A typical remorhaz ranges from 25 to 40 feet in length.
Most have eight pairs of stout, clawed legs, though
longer specimens have as many as twelve pairs. The
front third of the monster’s body is legless; this portion
can rear up like a cobra and unfold large, wing-like
frills that surround its frightening head, remarkable for
large, bulbous eyes of black and a gaping, fang-toothed
maw.
These serpentine monsters dwell in the vast tundra of
Hyperborea, where they feed on bears, deer, giant elk,
lions, mammoths, and other animals—not excluding
men, of course. The remorhaz is an aggressive
creature, solitary and territorial, though infrequently
encountered in mating pairs. Often these mates will
make their lair in an icy cave, where the female will lay a
single, brown-spotted blue egg valued at 5,000 gp.
Special:
¬¬ Infrared vision (as the spell) to 240-foot range.
¬¬ 7-in-20 spell resistance versus CA 12 casters. For
every CA level less than 12, the chance-in-twenty
increases by one (+1) (see Vol. III, p. 261: Saving
Throw, spell resistance).
¬¬ Once per day can emit a trilling song that charms
all within 60 feet who hear it, unless sorcery saves
are made; the saves are modified by willpower
adjustment (see Vol. I, p. 9: Attributes, wisdom),
if applicable. Charmed individuals stand dumbly,
allowing the remorhaz to swallow whole a single
target, but this attack effectively breaks the spell
for any other charmed victims.
¬¬ When incited, the spine ridge becomes white-hot;
any non-magical weapon striking the remorhaz has
a 3-in-6 chance to melt immediately. Touching the
spine ridge causes 3d10 hp damage.
¬¬ On a natural 20 attack roll, a Small or Medium
victim is swallowed whole, the heat inside the beast
causing immediate death; note that this action
effectively ends the trilling of a remorhaz
(see above).
