THEW WAGGON
No. Encountered: 2d6
Alignment: Neutral
Size: L
Movement: 20
Dexterity: 4
Armour Class: 4
Hit Dice: 10
Attack Rate: 1/1 (slam)
Damage: 1d10
Saving Throw: 12
Morale: 8
Experience Points: 1,300
Treasure Class: —
Thew waggons are 8- to 12-foot cubes of dense,
corrugated muscle that weigh as much as 4,000
pounds. Small of brain and sluggish of temperament,
these swamp-dwelling behemoths bristle with barbed
quills of up to 12-inch length. They ambulate by rotating
their underbelly muscles.
In the bogs of Hyperborea, enterprising men have
tamed thew waggons to serve as transports. First, onto
the end of the beast’s snout is attached a large syrup
sack that contains decayed vegetal matter laced with
ground lotus petals; effectively this fragrance placates
the beast. Next comes quill extraction, a painstaking
process that must be repeated with some regularity.
Once properly tamed, the thew waggon is fitted with
a harness system, which secures a carriage house
atop its back and fastens a tow bar to extend from the
beast’s posterior. Next, the “leg” muscles are made to
grip heavy wooden axles, to which massive wheels are
set. This entire process yields a most uncanny freight
engine with torque unmatchable. The “driver” sits in
the carriage and employs a long iron rod, which he
presses betwixt the folds of muscle that line the beast’s
back, touching nerves that stimulate specific responses:
stop, go, left, right, and so forth.
Thew waggons are herbivores; they feed on decayed
plant matter using the tubular snouts that extend
from their anterior masses. These beasts fear little, but
if threatened they will shake their quills, slam their
bulks against the ground, and release nauseating musk.
Sufficiently this behaviour drives away all but the most
tenacious predators.
Special:
¬¬ Can release musk thrice per day; nauseates and
burns the eyes, nose, and throat of any within 30
feet, unless death (poison) saves are made. Victims
suffer −4 penalties on attack rolls and saving
throws for 1d4 turns.
¬¬ Bodily contact with barbed quills inflicts 3d4 hp
damage.
