ZUVEMBIE
(Undead Type 7)
No. Encountered: 1 (1d3)
Alignment: Chaotic Evil
Size: M
Movement: 50
Dexterity: 16
Armour Class: 4
Hit Dice: 7
Attack Rate: 3/1 (claw / claw / bite)
Damage: 1d6+1 / 1d6+1 / 1d4+1
Saving Throw: 13
Morale: 12
Experience Points: 1,110
Treasure Class: E
The zuvembie is the result of a woman imbibing a
black brew (see Vol. V, p. 436: Magical Treasure,
magical potions). The resultant transformation is a
free-willed undead creature: a provocatively beautiful
yet frightening zombie, immortal as a vampire and
nearly as keen. The zuvembie retains no memory of its
past, forever changed and inscrutable in disposition.
It cannot speak, but it can vocalize weird and
haunting melodies. With its song it can control small
animals and oft maintains unlikely combinations of
such creatures in its vicinity (typically old towers,
abandoned farms, ruins, caves, and the like).
Zuvembies oft walk naked in moonlight, staring at the
stars through cadaverous eyes and pondering inhuman
thoughts; too, one will stand for hours or days in the
hollow of a tree, in the closet of an old house, or under
a stair. When opportunity presents, it will sing its
enchanting song to lure a man to its cold embrace,
taking him as a lover and then eating his entrails.
Zuvembies are renowned for animating their lifeless
lovers shortly after killing them and controlling their
corpses like puppets.
Special:
¬¬ Immune to poison, paralysis, fear, and cold.
¬¬ Harmed only by silver or magical weapons.
¬¬ Climb on 11-in-12 chance of success, at full
movement rate (see Vol. I, p: 21: Classes, thief).
¬¬ Can sing a haunting song that charms any human
males within 60 feet who hear it, unless sorcery
saves are made; the saving throws are modified by
willpower adjustment (see Vol. I, p. 9: Attributes,
wisdom), if applicable. Charmed individuals stand
dumbly and gaze into the eyes of the zuvembie,
allowing the beast to exact its grisly will.
¬¬ Bite inflicts disease (reverse of cure disease).
¬¬ Can cast the following spells at will (though only
one at a time): danse macabre, darkness (through
which it can see), witch fire.
¬¬ Once per week, can summon 3d6 small animals.
Each summoning conjures one animal type that will
remain in the zuvembie’s vicinity for 1d4 weeks,
warning and protecting their master. To determine
animal type, see Table 123.
