ANT, GIANT Giant Ant Giant Radioactive Ant
No. Encountered: 1 (3d6) 2d4 (1d6×3)
Alignment: Neutral Neutral
Size: M M
Movement: 60 60
Dexterity: 12 13
Armour Class: 3 3
Hit Dice: 4 4
Attack Rate: 1/1 (bite) 1/1 (bite)
Damage: 1d8 1d8
Saving Throw: 15 15
Morale: 8 8
Experience Points: 90 180
Treasure Class: Q (×3), S Q (×4)
Giant ants are black-and-red ants of from five- to eightfoot
length, omnivorous and insatiably hungry for
organic material (plant or animal, with a preference for
flesh). Typically they lair in underground nests and will
emerge to attack en masse, but encountering a solitary
soldier returning to the nest
is not unusual.
Giant radioactive ants
are giant ants that have
been irradiated by green
diamonds. They present
with pale grey, translucent
exoskeletons, under which
their internal organs glow
iridescent green, most
notably the metasoma
(posterior). Giant radioactive
ants are carnivorous and
insatiably hungry.
Unlike other giant ants,
these creatures display
limited intelligence,
communicating over vast
distances via a warbling whistle emitted by their vibrating
antennæ. This sound also can produce a mesmerizing
effect (see below). Giant radioactive ants oft will
congregate in threes, head-to-head, antennæ taking to
a brighter, pulsating green glow. The significance of this
activity is not yet understood.
Special (giant ant):
¬¬ Upon successful mandible bite, 2-in-6 chance the
creature will arch its metasoma to sting the target at
+2 on the attack roll. If this attack hits, it causes 1 hp
damage and delivers venom; make death (poison) save
or suffer additional 2d8 hp damage.
Special (giant radioactive ant):
¬¬ Warbling whistle can be used to communicate with
other giant radioactive ants within two miles, or it can
be modified to mesmerize a single mammal within
240 feet. The target must make a sorcery save or
enter a trance, dropping anything held and blindly
walking toward the whistler; he effectively presents
a defenceless target to be devoured. The save is
modified by willpower adjustment (see Vol. I, p. 9:
Attributes, wisdom), if applicable.
¬¬ Upon successful mandible bite, 1-in-6 chance
the creature will arch its metasoma to sting the
target at +2 on the attack roll. If this attack hits, it
causes 1d3 hp damage and delivers a lethal dose of
radiation; make death (radiation) save or die in 1d6
turns. Even if death is averted, the victim suffers
complete loss of hair within 24 hours; recurrent
nausea results as well.
