ALBINO APE SUPERIOR
(White Ape)
No. Encountered: 1
Alignment: Chaotic Evil
Size: L
Movement: 30
Dexterity: 8
Armour Class: 4
Hit Dice: 8+4
Attack Rate: 4/1 (claw ×4) or 2/1 (weapons)
Damage: 1d8+2 (×4) or 4d4 / 4d4
Saving Throw: 13
Morale: 10
Experience Points: 1,400
Treasure Class: Q
The albino ape is a massive white simian dwelling in
caves and caverns. Adult males grow up to seven feet
high and weigh as much as 600 pounds; females are
slightly smaller. Nocturnal and carnivorous, these
gorilla-like beasts demonstrate limited intelligence
through primitive tool use.
Typically they live in groups of 7–10, with one alpha
male, two or three females, and the remainder young;
otherwise, adult males will live solitarily, though a
sibling pair is possible. If approached, the apes will
pound their chests and roar. A man who carefully backs
away might escape (3-in-6 chance); otherwise the apes
will react violently. Albino apes are known to emerge
in the black of night to chase Ythaqqa, “The Wendigo”,
across the Plain of Leng, howling and frothing in
bestial rapture.
The albino ape superior is a rare specimen, always
male. Born with six limbs—two pairs of massive arms
and one pair of stout legs—it grows to nine feet and
weighs as much as 1,100 pounds. These apes are much
as their cousins, though they can manipulate weapons
and are possessed of slightly elevated intelligence (and
no small amount of wickedness); some have learnt to
speak the Common tongue of man. They oft assume
leadership of albino apes, brooding ape-kings.
Special:
¬¬ Acute sense of smell; chance to be surprized
reduced by 1-in-6.
¬¬ If all four claw attacks strike one opponent,
strangulation ensues the next round, causing
1d8+2 hp damage per round. An extraordinary feat
of strength can break the ape’s grasp (see Vol. I,
p. 7: Attributes, strength); serious damage also
may compel the beast to let go. After 3 rounds
of strangulation, the victim must make a test of
constitution or asphyxiate (see Vol. III, p. 263:
Special Damage, asphyxia). Rare victims who
survive this attack have been known to lose their
voices forever.
