APE-MAN Ape-Man Ape-Man Alpha
No. Encountered: 1d6 (6d6) 1:12
Alignment: Neutral or
Lawful Evil
Neutral or
Lawful Evil
Size: M M
Movement: 30 30
Dexterity: 10 12
Armour Class: 8 7
Hit Dice: 1+2 3+4
Attack Rate: 1/1 (weapon) 3/2 (weapon)
Damage: (per weapon +1) (per weapon +1)
Saving Throw: 16 15
Morale: 9 9
Experience Points: 24* 90
Treasure Class: L; C, Q (×2), S M, Q (×2); Q (×5)
* Refer to p. 294: Table 122 for classed individuals.
These quasi-humans walk upright as men; males are
from five to six feet tall, females from four to five feet
tall on average. Ape-men have the base countenance
and body hair of an ape and a body type that presents
with human and simian characteristics, including
opposable thumbs. Culturally they range from
utter primitivism (fire and stone tool use) to mock
sophistication and reason rivalling the lowliest of men.
Ape-men communicate via a limited vocabulary of
grunts and growls, hoots and trills.
Brutish and violent, ape-men are omnivorous, though
preferring raw meat. Their warriors and hunters will
wear the hides of beasts; some will don the armour
of men when opportunity presents. Weapons include
clubs, slings, and hand-hurled stones, unless the apemen
acquire the steel of man.
Ape-man tribes dwell in caves, mountains, and forests.
About 1 in 12 is an ape-man alpha, a physically
dominant humanoid. Also, most tribes of 20 or more
individuals will have a shaman; these sorcerers
typically hallow Yug or Xathoqqua.
N.B.: An advanced group of some 5,000 ape-men
populates the City-State of Kor and serves as its
ruling elite. These ape-men can read and write, forge
weapons and tools of iron and steel, and assume the
principle classes of fighter, magician, cleric, and thief.
Some sages posit these elevated ape-men to be the
beneficiaries of otherworldly sponsorship.
Special:
¬¬ Climb on 11-in-12 chance of success, at full
movement rate (see Vol. I, p: 21: Classes, thief).
¬¬ Ape-man shamans can advance as high as 5th level;
for each level beyond 1st, they add 1 hit die (d8) to
their base 1+2 HD.
