CLOAKER
No. Encountered: 1 (1d10×10)
Alignment: Chaotic Evil
Size: M
Movement: 10 (fly 50)
Dexterity: 13
Armour Class: 3 (1)
Hit Dice: 6
Attack Rate: 2/1 (lash / lash)
Damage: 1d6 / 1d6
Saving Throw: 14
Morale: 9
Experience Points: 460
Treasure Class: C
These weird monsters of extra-dimensional origin
dwell in deep dungeons and caverns. Possessed of alien
intelligence, they speak their own sibilant tongue that
some sorcerers can learn; also they communicate via
telepathy. They are called “cloakers” because of their
shape and appearance, resembling cowled cloaks,
black on the outside and pale grey on the inside. A
cloaker has two hidden, claw-like appendages edging
the “cowl” and a forked tail (as a tuxedo) with barbed
ends. An horizontal “seam” inside the cloak is actually
a fang-filled maw, above which can open two eye slits
of crimson red. On the back of the cloak are 12 black
“buttons” that are in fact eyes.
In vast subterranean caverns, as many as 100
cloakers may roost like bats, but typically only one is
encountered. A single cloaker may be discovered in a
dungeon, detected as a magical cloak, and even perhaps
identified as a cloak of protection (see Vol. V, p.
473: Magical Treasure, miscellaneous magic items).
Cloakers can effect symbiotic relationships with men
or other humanoids. If unsuspectingly “donned”, they
latch on, manipulating and feeding off of their hosts.
Special:
¬¬ Never surprized.
¬¬ AC 1 when fighting in darkness, or in dim or
shadowy conditions.
¬¬ If both tail lashes hit, cloaker envelops victim and
bites for 2d4 hp damage. It will continue to bite
every round, hitting automatically. If the wrapped
cloaker is attacked, damage is split evenly betwixt
the monster and its victim (though area effect
spells harm both normally). The victim can attempt
to break free with a test of strength (see Vol. I, p. 7:
Attributes, strength).
¬¬ If a cloaker is unwittingly donned, it gently pricks
its claw-like “hands” into the victim’s neck. The
referee should roll a secret sorcery save for the
victim, modified by willpower adjustment (see Vol.
I, p. 9: Attributes, wisdom), if applicable. If the
save is successful, the victim realizes a monster
is attached to him; pulling it off causes 1d4 hp
damage. If the save fails, the victim is unaware,
and the cloaker will manipulate his actions (ideally
via notes passed betwixt referee and player). The
victim and his allies will believe the cloaker is but a
fine magical cloak, conferring a +1 AC bonus. If the
victim receives any sorcerous healing, the cloaker
(if wounded) always will take 1 hp of healing for
itself.
