DÆMON, GREATER, CLASS VII
(Undead Type 13)
No. Encountered: 1
Alignment: Chaotic Evil
Size: L
Movement: 40
Dexterity: 14
Armour Class: −7
Hit Dice: 15
Attack Rate: 4/1 (claw ×4)
Damage: 3d6 (×4)
Saving Throw: 9
Morale: 11
Experience Points: 8,700
Treasure Class: H
Class VII greater dæmons typically present as ape-men
of large size, standing nine feet tall and heavily thewed.
When rarely appearing in their true forms (typically
when instigated or wishing to present an ostentatious
display), each stands 14 feet tall, with the upper body of
an enormous, four-armed ape and a sinuous, snail-like
lower body that terminates in a series of short-taloned
appendages. Perhaps most disturbingly, the abdomen
of these netherworldly horrors is lined with articulated
talons that surround a snapping, beaked maw.
It is postulated that at least five class VII greater
dæmons exist—or, rather, five have been recorded.
They are said to reside in the nethermost depths of
Underborea, save perhaps one, which is believed to be
the true overlord of the City-State of Kor. It is said that
significant rancour exists betwixt the class VII greater
dæmons and the Dæmon Lord, Thaumagorga, but the
diabolical struggles of the netherworld scarcely are
understood by even the most learned men. Regardless,
class VII greater dæmons despise mankind; they take
great delight in torturing and devouring men at any
opportunity. Class VII greater dæmons are known to
champion the ape-man race; they are said to anticipate
the fall of mankind and the rise of the ape-men.
Special:
¬¬ 12-in-20 spell resistance versus CA 12 casters. For
every CA level less than 12, the chance-in-twenty
increases by one (+1) (see Vol. III, p. 261: Saving
Throw, spell resistance).
¬¬ Cold, electricity, fire, and gas attacks inflict
½ damage, or ¼ damage if save is made.
¬¬ +1 or better weapon to hit.
¬¬ If all four claw attacks strike a single opponent,
the victim is drawn immediately to the abdominal
claws, which automatically pierce him for an
additional 4d4 hp damage. This impalement is
followed by an automatic, venomous maw bite for
1d6 hp damage, which requires a death (poison)
saving throw to avert immediate death.
¬¬ Once per day this dæmon can make a buzz saw
attack, spinning in place with tremendous rapidity,
all four arms extended. This manoeuvre is resolved
with a single attack roll that results in eight actual
hits if contact is achieved, rendering 16d6 hp
damage.
¬¬ Can cast the following spells at will (though only
one at a time): cause fear (reverse of remove fear),
darkness, decipher language, detect invisibility, detect
magic, infrared vision, polymorph self, pyrotechnics,
suggestion, telekinesis, teleport (without error).
¬¬ Can dispel magic thrice per day, at CA 9 capacity.
¬¬ Once per day, can attempt to beckon another dæmon
to fight alongside it (as reverse of dismissal), with
4-in-6 chance of success; roll 1d6: On a 1–4, a class
III greater dæmon is beckoned; on a 5–6, a class IV
greater dæmon is beckoned. Alternatively, it can
attempt to summon 1d6 class vi lesser dæmons or
1d4 class viii lesser dæmons, with 5-in-6 chance
of success.
