ELDER THING
(Elder One, Old One)
No. Encountered: 1d8
Alignment: Chaotic Evil
Size: L
Movement: 40 (fly / swim 60)
Dexterity: 11
Armour Class: 2
Hit Dice: 6+6
Attack Rate: 5/1 (pummel ×5)
Damage: 1d4+4 (×5)
Saving Throw: 14
Morale: 12
Experience Points: 870
Treasure Class: Q (×10)
This alien being has a perpendicular, cylindrical body
of eight-foot height. Its dark grey torso of three-foot
diameter (tapering to one foot at the ends) is vertically
ridged, with thick, leathery skin. A pair of seven-foot,
membranous wings (for flight and aquatic locomotion)
extends from betwixt the vertical ridges. From amongst
the ridges of the equator project five thin, flexible arms
that can stretch up to three feet; each arm has five sticky
tentacles of eight-inch length.
From the top of the torso extends a bulbous, gilled neck.
The starfish-shaped head is covered with prismatic cilia,
and from each point of the star projects a yellow tube
capped with a large, glassy eye. At the bottom of the
torso depend five powerful, greenish tentacles, each
terminating in a triangular fin or pseudo-foot.
Elder things thrive on land or water—even in the vacuum
of space. They were the first otherworldly race to arrive on
Old Earth when it was a steaming, volcanic husk; some
sages speculate that these aliens, by accident or design,
sowed its primordial seas with the first cells of life. The
elder things built vast stone cities on land and in the
ocean depths. At length they factionalized and warred
with one another (and also with the crab-men, fishmen,
Great Race, and mi-go), but their own genetically
created slaves, the shoggoths, rebelled against the elder
things and nearly obliterated them. Over millennia the
remaining elder things regressed to insane savagery.
Some sages posit that they became infected with a
disease causing a sharply regressed mental state.
Presently few elder things remain in Hyperborea;
occasionally they thaw from ancient glacial ice, or
wake from ages-long hibernation. When they emerge
they present as wroth beasts, savage and bloodthirsty,
completely bereft of their previous super-intelligence.
Typically they emit horrific piping sounds whilst
spinning like tops and flailing with their five base
tentacles.
Special:
¬¬ Immune to cold and airless vacuum.
¬¬ Once per turn, can release a terrifying piping sound
that inspires a fear effect (as the spell); sorcery save
to resist. Once the fear ends, a second sorcery save is
required; if it fails, 1d3 forms of insanity manifest
(see Vol. III, p. 264: Special Damage, madness).
Both saving throws are modified by willpower
adjustment (see Vol. I, p. 9: Attributes, wisdom),
if applicable.
