GIBBERING MOUTHER
No. Encountered: 1
Alignment: Chaotic Evil
Size: M
Movement: 10 (swim 30)
Dexterity: 5
Armour Class: 1
Hit Dice: 4+4
Attack Rate: 5/1–8/1 (1d4+4 bites)
Damage: 1 (per bite)
Saving Throw: 15
Morale: 10
Experience Points: 475
Treasure Class: Q
This six- to eight-foot-diameter protoplasmic horror
is a degenerate subspecies of shoggoth that lairs in
cold caves and subterranean depths. Tarlike in colour,
it glistens with green phosphorescence and bubbles
with multitudinous eyes and mouths. The creature
is of limited intelligence, but oft it will conceal its
eyes and mouths as victims approach, presenting as
a greenish glowing pool of soupy tar. Then it will lash
out, attacking the unsuspecting, eager to take flesh
and bone alike for its provender. N.B.: Some humanoid
species, especially ape-men and cave-men, venerate
gibbering mouthers as creatures blessed of Yug; thus
they will make unspeakable sacrifices to these horrific
monsters.
Special:
¬¬ Once per day can emit a cacophonous babble,
causing listeners to become subject to confusion
(as the spell). A sorcery save is allowed to resist;
the save is modified by willpower adjustment (see
Vol. I, p. 9: Attributes, wisdom), if applicable.
Blocking ears with cotton or the like can pre-empt
this ability.
¬¬ Can eject visceral spittle with uncanny accuracy to
60-foot range. The spittle is an extremely bright,
green flash, which blinds all victims within 30 feet
for 1d4 rounds if eyes not shielded in advance; a
transformation save is allowed to resist.
¬¬ Attacks with 1d4+4 mouths, usually targeting one
or two victims.
¬¬ Each hit latches on, draining for an additional 1 hp
damage per round.
¬¬ If three or more mouths bite a single victim,
avoidance save must be made, or victim is pulled
down and at once bitten by 1d6+6 more mouths,
each of which also drains as noted above.
¬¬ Enzyme release allows it to heat and transform
stone or earth into a tarry, quicksand-like
substance within which it can hide or retreat.
