LIZARD-MAN CHIEFTAIN
No. Encountered: 1:50
Alignment: Neutral
Size: M
Movement: 30
Dexterity: 10
Armour Class: 5
Hit Dice: 6+2
Attack Rate: 1/1 (bite) or 3/2 (weapon)
Damage: 1d6+1 (or per weapon +1)
Saving Throw: 14
Morale: 11
Experience Points: 1,250
Treasure Class: S, T
A lizard-man is a water-dwelling, reptilian biped, with an
iguana-like head, a pronounced spine ridge, and a long
tail. Its scaly skin ranges from brown to green. Lizardmen
are herbivorous, egg-bearing creatures that typically
thrive along the seacoast, in swamps or marshes, or by
rivers and lakes.
Lizard-men are possessed of primitive intelligence,
utilizing spears and clubs of their own manufacture, or
the weapons of men when they can acquire them.
Some lizard-man tribes have developed crude
archery techniques. They speak their own sibilant
tongue, but some can speak a rudimentary form
of the Common tongue of
man; others still understand
an antiquated Thracian
dialect. Advanced tribes
have developed a method
for riding giant draco
lizards, affixing these
massive creatures with
riding harnesses.
Lizard-men are reclusive by nature; when intruded
upon, they oft capture and execute the trespassers as
part of some clandestine ritual. During winter years,
lizard-men of mainland Hyperborea will burrow into
underground caverns, where they will hibernate for
months if not years at a time. For every 12 lizard-men
there will be 1 sub-chief, a commander of superior
fighting skills; for every 50 lizard-men there will be
1 chieftain, a reptilian shaman who venerates ancestral
spirits.
Special:
¬¬ A chieftain has all the abilities of a 7th-level shaman
(see Vol. I, p. 78: Cleric Subclasses, shaman).
The referee can select spells accordingly (cleric /
druid: 2 × level 1, 1 × level 2, 1 × level 3, 1 × level 4;
magician / necromancer: 1 × level 1, 1 × level 2,
1 × level 3), or use the following default selections:
÷÷ Level 1: detect magic, light; identify
÷÷ Level 2: find traps; darkness
÷÷ Level 3: cure disease; dispel magic
÷÷ Level 4: speak with plants; bestow curse
