LYCANTHROPE Wererat Werewolf Werewolf Superior
No. Encountered: 2d6 1 (2d4) 1
Alignment: Chaotic Evil Chaotic Evil Chaotic Evil
Size: M M L
Movement: 40 60 60
Dexterity: 15 14 15
Armour Class: 6 5 5
Hit Dice: 3 4 6
Attack Rate: 1/1 (bite or weapon) 3/1 (claw / claw / bite) 3/1 (claw / claw / bite)
Damage: 1d4 (or per weapon) 1d4 / 1d4 / 2d4 1d6 / 1d6 / 2d6
Saving Throw: 15 15 14
Morale: 7 8 10
Experience Points: 161 285 780
Treasure Class: C B I
Wererats are cunning lycanthropes that lair in
dungeons, abandoned buildings, sewers, and
basements. They can assume three different forms:
that of a human, a rat-man, and a giant rat; however, on
the three nights when Selene is full and the one night
when Phobos is full (see Vol. VI, p. 500: Table 153),
they transform into rat-man form, regardless of their
wishes. Typically they use human form to dupe the
ignorant into entering their lairs. Their rat-man form
is a four- to five-foot humanoid with a rat’s head, a
human body (albeit coated in rat fur), and a rat’s long
tail; the above statistics reflect this form. In their giant
rat form they have the statistics of a giant rat, but
retain their current hit points and the Special abilities
noted hereafter.
A werewolf is a cursed man who transforms into a
wolf-man at will, except during the three nights when
Selene is full and the one night when Phobos is full (see
Vol. VI, p. 500: Table 153), when the change occurs
regardless of the werewolf ’s wishes. Werewolves are
bipedal, standing five or more feet in height, with
the fur of wolves. They have powerful legs, clawed
hands, and elongated snouts with large fangs. Even as
beasts they retain semi-intelligence, albeit violent and
temperamental. The werewolf superior is perhaps the
most potent lycanthrope: larger, more ferocious, and
wickedly cunning. Often they lead other werewolves.
Special (all):
¬¬ Horses are keen to the presence of lycanthropes
and will snort with fear when they approach.
¬¬ Harmed only by silver or magical weapons.
¬¬ If wolfsbane is wrapped about the point of a spear
or like weapon, and a lycanthrope is struck, it
must make a death (poison) save or flee in panic (or
possibly cower and surrender).
¬¬ Bite confers lycanthropy unless a death (poison)
save is made.
¬¬ If killed, lycanthrope
reverts to human form.
¬¬ Every 91 days, when
both moons are full,
all lycanthropes are
especially ferocious,
gaining +2 damage
bonuses to every
successful attack. During
this period they also are
enhanced temporarily
by +2 hp per HD; these
bonus hit points are
deducted first when the
lycanthrope is damaged,
and they dissipate as the
moons wane.
Special (wererat):
¬¬ Can summon 3d4 giant rats once per day, which
arrive 1d4 rounds later.
Special (werewolf ):
¬¬ Can summon 1d4 wolves thrice per day, which
arrive 1d4 rounds later.
Special (werewolf superior):
¬¬ Can summon 1d4 dire wolves thrice per day, which
arrive 1d4 rounds later.
