MI-GO (Fungus from Yuggoth)
No. Encountered: 2d6 (2d10×10)
Alignment: Lawful Evil
Size: M
Movement: 40
Dexterity: 11
Armour Class: −1
Hit Dice: 6+6
Attack Rate: 4/1 (claw ×4) or 2/1 (scimitar / scimitar) or 1/1 (laser pistol)
Damage: 1d4+4 (×4) (or per weapon)
Saving Throw: 14
Morale: 10
Experience Points: 990 (or 1,290 with laser pistol)
Treasure Class: H, S, T, W
These crustaceous otherworldly beings are of pale
pink colour and measure from five to seven feet long.
Their innards are not organ-based; compact layers of
brown fungi comprise their viscera. They have several
sets of articulated limbs, each terminating in threedigit
pincers, which they manipulate with uncanny
precision. They have horned, membranous wings,
which they use to sail the gelid winds of the Black
Gulf (oft from Yuggoth to Hyperborea); these wings,
however, are not suited to atmospheric flight and are
reserved solely for space travel.
A mi-go’s head is a corrugated ellipsoid from which
multitudinous antennæ project; when the mi-go
telepathically communicate with one another, their
heads glimmer green, indigo, or violet. Also, they
can effect quasi-vocal communication: a buzzing,
hauntingly waspish whisper that apes human speech.
In combat, mi-go can attack with their four foremost
pincers. However, most prefer the use of laser pistols,
strange limpid wands that emit disintegration beams.
Other mi-go will wield paired scimitars of crystal.
In the vast depths of Underborea, the mi-go harvest
crystals. Also they maintain vast tunnel vaults, research
centres, and libraries, the last of which collect alien and
domestic knowledge in vast tomes of glassy “paper”.
They monitor mankind from command centres lined
with display terminals.
1d4+8 hp damage each (1d8+1 hp damage in the
hands of men, if the hilts are modified for human
use).
¬¬ Some mi-go brandish crystalline laser pistols
with 12-inch barrels, 1 inch in diameter. The laser
pistol’s beam is quite narrow, requiring a normal
attack roll. If the beam hits, the target must make
a death save (modified by defence adjustment, if
applicable; see Vol. I, p. 7: Attributes, dexterity)
or be disintegrated to a smoking pile of ash; if the
save is successful, damage is 3d6 hp (a grazing
shot). A typical mi-go laser pistol holds a 28-charge
clip.
¬¬ If killed, the creature’s fungous innards rapidly
break down to a corrosive acid that dissolves the
deceased mi-go within 1d12+12 hours.
In labyrinthine mega-dungeons the migo
are masters of the oon, a sub-race of
humanity bred in vitro to emotionless
servility; they are maintained through
a regular diet of synthetic potions
that suppress individuality and sexual
development. Often the mi-go will send
oon bounty hunters to the surface world
to abduct men whose minds and talents
are of particular interest; the mi-go are
reputed to extract the brains of sages,
sorcerers, poets, madmen, and the
like, placing them in metal cylinders
and conveying them to Yuggoth for
reasons unclear. Their rituals are said
to invoke a (possible) deity known as
Shub-Niggurath, “The Black Goat of the
Woods with a Thousand Young”.
Special:
¬¬ Immune to cold and airless
vacuum.
¬¬ Can fly vast distances across
the Black Gulf via space-folding
dimensional travel.
¬¬ Through buzzing whispers, can
effect sleep in all living creatures of
6 or fewer HD in a 30-foot radius,
which must make sorcery saves or
slumber for 4d6 turns. The minds of
1d4 sleepers can be implanted with
a suggestion (as the spell) that takes
effect upon waking.
¬¬ Once per day, through a buzzing
cry, can effect a hold monster spell on
a single creature.
¬¬ Can cast extrasensory perception
thrice per day.
¬¬ Can wield two crystal scimitars
with no attack penalty, delivering
1d4+8 hp damage each (1d8+1 hp damage in the
hands of men, if the hilts are modified for human
use).
¬¬ Some mi-go brandish crystalline laser pistols
with 12-inch barrels, 1 inch in diameter. The laser
pistol’s beam is quite narrow, requiring a normal
attack roll. If the beam hits, the target must make
a death save (modified by defence adjustment, if
applicable; see Vol. I, p. 7: Attributes, dexterity)
or be disintegrated to a smoking pile of ash; if the
save is successful, damage is 3d6 hp (a grazing
shot). A typical mi-go laser pistol holds a 28-charge
clip.
¬¬ If killed, the creature’s fungous innards rapidly
break down to a corrosive acid that dissolves the
deceased mi-go within 1d12+12 hours.
