MUMMY, ICE Ice Mummy
(Undead Type 5)
Thrall
(Undead Type 2)
Noble
(Undead Type 7)
No. Encountered: 1d6 (2d6) 4d6 (4d6×10) 1
Alignment: Lawful Evil Lawful Evil Lawful Evil
Size: M M M
Movement: 40 30 40
Dexterity: 10 7 10
Armour Class: 6 8 3
Hit Dice: 4 2 7
Attack Rate: 1/1
(touch or weapon)
1/1
(pummel)
1/1
(touch or weapon)
Damage: 1d4
(or per weapon +1) 1d8 1d4
(or per weapon +2)
Saving Throw: 15 16 13
Morale: 12 12 12
Experience Points: 240 32 1,110
Treasure Class: B J, K, L, M E
Ice mummies are corpses that were preserved in
gruesome, withered forms by cold temperatures
and which became inhabited by Evil spirits of the
Hyperborean ice. Their eyes shew a spark of intellect,
but their only goal is the icy death of all living beings.
Their victims are buried in snow and rise as ice
mummy thralls a day later. Whereas the mindless
thralls simply rend their foes as directed by their
frigid masters, ice mummies oft accoutre themselves
with weapons and bits of armour from their halfremembered
mortal lives; too, some are said to ride
gaunt, skeletal warhorses (large undead animals).
In the depths of the Spiral Mountain Array are
rumoured to exist noble ice mummies as cunning as
any man, who also command powers of cryomancy.
Some tribes of savage vhuurmis are thought to
propitiate them as gods. In the dark year of Nightfall,
these undying horrors are reputed to sally forth upon
their skeletal steeds, leading scores of their kindred to
slaughter all life they encounter.
Special (all):
¬¬ Immune to poison, paralysis, fear, and cold.
¬¬ Can detect body heat (as the spell) at will.
Special (thrall):
¬¬ If exposed to ambient temperatures above 32°F,
must make a death saving throw every round or fall
to pieces. Automatically destroyed if exposed to an
ambient temperature of 60°F or higher.
¬¬ Suffers double damage from normal or magical
fire.
¬¬ Mundane chopping or slashing weapons (e.g., axes,
scimitars, swords) cause ½ damage to ice mummy
thralls; mundane blunt or piercing weapons (e.g.,
hammers, maces, arrows, spears) cause ¼ damage.
Magical weapons of all kinds cause full damage.
Special (ice mummy and noble ice mummy):
¬¬ Radiates continuous change
temperature effect (as the spell),
decreasing temperature in a 10-foot
radius by 50°F.
¬¬ If exposed to ambient temperatures
above 80°F, must make a death
saving throw every round or fall to
pieces.
¬¬ Immune to normal fire; magical fire
inflicts double damage.
¬¬ Harmed only by silver or magical
weapons; silver weapons cause ¼
damage only.
¬¬ Touch confers frostbite; victim
loses 1d4 hp and 1 point of DX per
round until warmed. Lost DX can
be recovered at a rate of 1 point
per hour in a warm environment.
If DX is reduced below 3, victim
crystallizes and dies.
Special (noble ice mummy):
¬¬ Noble ice mummies gain +2 bonuses to device and
sorcery saves.
¬¬ A noble ice mummy has the sorcery ability of a
7th-level cryomancer. The referee can select spells
accordingly (4 × level 1, 3 × level 2, 2 × level 3,
1 × level 4), or use the following default selections:
÷÷ Level 1: freezing hands, magic ice dart, precipitate,
shield
÷÷ Level 2: gust of wind, obscure, wall of vapours
÷÷ Level 3: black cloud, freeze surface
÷÷ Level 4: ice javelin
