ROPER
No. Encountered: 1d2
Alignment: Chaotic Evil
Size: L
Movement: 10
Dexterity: 11
Armour Class: 0
Hit Dice: 10
Attack Rate: 6/1 (lash ×6)
Damage: —
Saving Throw: 12
Morale: 9
Experience Points: 2,500
Treasure Class: Q, R
These sinuous, pale-yellow monsters are shaped like
tapered pillars, up to nine feet tall and three feet in
diameter, with four-foot-diameter bases. Radiating
from their bodies are six sticky tentacles of five-foot
length, though capable of stretching to 50 feet. Ropers
strictly dwell in lairs subterranean where they prey
upon most animals, including men. Often they hide
in limestone caverns, able to hang like stalactites or
protrude like stalagmites. From such a concealed
position, a roper will extend its ropy tentacles (which
are coated in a poisonous secretion) and draw prey to
its fang-toothed, circular maw, above which stares its
single, cyclopean eye. N.B.: A roper oft holds gems in its
gizzard; hence treasure class Q , if scored, will be within
the beast, not about its lair.
Special:
¬¬ Chance to surprize increased by 1-in-6.
¬¬ 13-in-20 spell resistance versus CA 12 casters. For
every CA level less than 12, the chance-in-twenty
increases by one (+1) (see Vol. III, p. 261: Saving
Throw, spell resistance).
¬¬ Immune to electrical attacks; sustains ½ damage
from cold, though vulnerable to fire (−4 on saves).
¬¬ A tentacle hit causes no damage, but secretion
requires death (poison) save or victim is weakened,
losing 1d4 points of strength for 1d6 turns. Victims
ensnared by at least two tentacles are dragged
at 10 MV to the maw of the monster, which then
bites one victim per round for 5d4 hp damage.
Escaping the roper’s grasp requires an extraordinary
feat of strength (see Vol. I, p. 7: Attributes,
strength), success indicating the tentacle is broken;
alternatively, one may sever a tentacle with a blade,
but it must suffer 8 hp damage to break. A held
victim is at a disadvantage, suffering a −4 penalty
to attack rolls.
¬¬ For every 8 hp damage sustained, the roper loses
the function of one tentacle.
