SWINISH SHADE
(Undead Type 1)
No. Encountered: 1d20×10
Alignment: Chaotic Evil
Size: S
Movement: 50
Dexterity: 12
Armour Class: −3
Hit Dice: 1 hp
Attack Rate: —
Damage: —
Saving Throw: —
Morale: 12
Experience Points: 15
Treasure Class: —
It is well known amongst savants that orcs are the
spawn of fleshly men and dæmons, given life by the fell
bargains of desperate folk in ancient times. What is less
known is that the dæmonic essence lingers even after
the foul orcish flesh is buried, burnt, or (oftest) eaten by
fellow orcs. In a place where many orcs died in a short
time, such as a great battlefield or an orcish settlement
whose inhabitants were massacred, these unseen
swinish shades can be numerous enough to affect the
world of the living.
In a haunted area (usually no more than one square
mile), swinish shades will manifest during hours of
darkness as a foul wind that plucks and tears at the
bodies of the living and torments their souls. Those
who listen closely might perceive a sound like the
squealing and shrieking of myriad pigs. Although
naturally invisible, if swinish shades are revealed
through true seeing or a like ability, they present as an
indistinct cloud of darkness with scores of burning
eyes, portions of the mass occasionally coalescing into
the leering faces of dæmonic pigs. When few swinish
shades are present, this wind can but annoy and harass
(e.g., extinguishing torches or lanterns, moving small
objects), but when many such entities exist, they can
present a real danger to life and limb.
Special:
¬¬ Immune to most sorcery. Protection from evil will
prevent swinish shades from affecting those
so warded. Dispel evil cast within their area of
manifestation will destroy all swinish shades
present.
¬¬ +1 or better weapon to hit.
¬¬ An attacker with true seeing or like means to
penetrate invisibility receives a +4 attack bonus
versus swinish shades.
¬¬ During hours of darkness, living beings in a place
haunted by swinish shades suffer −2 penalties on all
attack rolls, damage rolls, and saving throws.
¬¬ During hours of darkness, swinish shades can work
as one entity, engulfing a single victim and exerting
a strength score (ST) equal to 1 per 10 shades
present (18 maximum). (Conversely, for every 10
shades turned or destroyed, ST is reduced by −1.)
This strength manifests as a physical force against
the victim. If the victim is of equal or greater
strength, he merely will suffer double the usual
penalties (i.e., −4 on attack rolls, damage rolls, and
saving throws). Weaker victims are overpowered
and helpless, dragged at 50 MV toward a pit, a
precipice, or some other deadly position. This final
push can be evaded through an avoidance save;
however, the shades relentlessly will continue to
push every round (requiring subsequent avoidance
saves). The success of attempts by companions
to prevent this dragging and pushing must be
adjudicated by the referee. Once a victim has been
dropped to his doom, the swinish shades may
return for another.
¬¬ When swinish shades are massed as one entity,
every hit point of damage inflicted upon them
destroys one shade (e.g., a single strike from
a magical sword causing 5 hp damage would
eliminate five swinish shades). This attrition
gradually diminishes the shades’ strength (see
above).
¬¬ Living beings that remain in an area haunted by
swinish shades eventually will sicken and die.
These unfortunates will be unable to sleep and
will recover neither hit points nor spells. After
spending 24 hours in such an area, they must make
death saves or suffer 1d4 hp damage. In subsequent
24-hour periods, this damage is automatic, with no
saves permitted.
