TRANSMUNDANE
No. Encountered: 1d2
Alignment: Lawful (usually Evil)
Size: M
Movement: 40
Dexterity: 13
Armour Class: 3
Hit Dice: 7+7
Attack Rate: 2/1 (weapon)
Damage: (per weapon +2)
Saving Throw: 13
Morale: 11
Experience Points: 1,640
Treasure Class: Q (×3)
The transmundane are members of a powerful and
enigmatic race whose place of origin is unknown,
but which certainly lies beyond Hyperborea. A
transmundane looks much like a six- to seven-foottall
handsome man or woman, typically clad in the
dress and hairstyle of classical Greece and bearing an
Hellenic name such as Hypnos or Kressida. The flesh,
clothing, and hair of these beings are shades of gold
and silver, making the transmundane look not unlike
animated statues, or perhaps cunning automata;
appearances notwithstanding, they do seem to be
living creatures. Their voices are high and melodious,
and they are surrounded by a pleasing scent of exotic
blossoms, but their personalities are most haughty and
imperious.
The transmundane understand even the most advanced
technology (such as that of ancient Atlantis) and
have been known to use such devices in their cryptic
schemes. They may bear any weapon, but rarely
deign to do so. Generally either one transmundane
is encountered, or a pair comprising a male and
a female; whether these are mates, siblings, or
colleagues remains open to conjecture. (If a pair is
met, the female generally will be somewhat friendlier
and more solicitous of “lesser beings”.) When slain,
a transmundane disappears within a few moments,
leaving behind the smell of sweet spices.
The transmundane come to Hyperborea for diverse
purposes, not all of which are comprehended easily
by men. Oftest their actions seem to be in direct
opposition to the diabolical schemes of dæmons and
such inimical aliens as the Great Race and the migo.
To these ends they put their formidable mental
powers, as well as the strength of men whose loyalty has
been purchased by strange gems found nowhere else
in Hyperborea. Despite their frequent warfare against
the minions of Thaumagorga, most transmundane are
best classified as Lawful Evil, little caring how many
humans suffer or die in pursuit of their lofty goals. A
rare few seem to be Lawful Good, and these will take
some care to minimize human casualties in the course
of their eldritch conflict with the dæmons—but even
the most benevolent transmundane will suffer not
questioning or disobedience from the “lesser beings”
that they generously allow to serve as soldiers in their
invisible war.
Special:
¬¬ 12-in-20 spell resistance versus CA 12 casters. For
every CA level less than 12, the chance-in-twenty
increases by one (+1) (see Vol. III, p. 261: Saving
Throw, spell resistance).
¬¬ Immune to poison, paralysis, disease, illusions,
and any spell that affects the mind.
¬¬ +1 or better weapon to hit.
¬¬ Can cast the following spells at will (though only
one at a time): advanced spectral phantasm, charm
person or beast, detect evil, dimension door, discern lie,
extrasensory perception, hold monster, invisibility,
tongues.
