VAMPIRE
(Undead Type 11)
No. Encountered: 1 (2d4)
Alignment: Evil (Lawful or Chaotic)
Size: M
Movement: 40 (fly 80)
Dexterity: 16
Armour Class: 2
Hit Dice: 9+2
Attack Rate: 2/1 (pummel / pummel)
Damage: 2d6 / 2d6
Saving Throw: 12
Morale: 10
Experience Points: 2,650*
Treasure Class: F
* Refer to p. 294: Table 122 for classed individuals.
This notorious undead monster is a cursed man
arisen from the grave to prey on the weak and drink
their blood. Vampires take many forms, some being
incorporeal manifestations that haunt locales of
unfortunate occurrences. The most common vampires
are those oft told of in folklore: malevolent corpses
that dwell in cursed tombs, ruins, and other desolate
places, where they slumber in coffins, sarcophagi, or
like receptacles. Vampires are perhaps the most feared
undead because of their brutal power and ability to
command both the living and the dead. They are as
clever and resourceful as they are sadistic and cruel; to
conquer a vampire is no easy task.
Special:
¬¬ At will, can assume the shape of a bat, giant bat, or
wolf, or gaseous form (as the potion; see Vol. V,
p. 438: Magical Treasure, magical potions).
¬¬ Immune to poison, paralysis, fear, and cold.
¬¬ Will not cross a body of water unless secured in its
coffin.
¬¬ Strong odour of garlic repels a vampire, unless
death (poison) save is made.
¬¬ Even if turning is not possible (or if turn attempt
fails), vampires will recoil from the boldly
presented holy symbol of a Lawful Good cleric,
priest, or paladin.
¬¬ +1 or better weapon to hit.
¬¬ Regenerates 3 hp per round; if reduced to 0 hp,
assumes gaseous form and returns to its coffin,
where it regenerates at 3 hp per turn.
¬¬ Disintegrated by direct sunlight, unless death
save is made, in which case creature is burnt for
1d6 hp damage per round; this damage does not
regenerate unless vampire returns to its coffin for
24 hours. If reduced to 0 hp in sunlight, vampire
disintegrates.
¬¬ To otherwise kill a vampire, wooden stake must
be driven through its heart when reduced to 0 hp;
body must be placed in a coffin and sealed, and
decapitated head buried elsewhere.
¬¬ Once per day can summon 3d6 giant bats, 6d6 rats,
2d12 giant rats, 2d6 wolves, or 1d8 dire wolves,
which arrive 1d4 rounds later.
¬¬ Once per victim per day, can ensorcel a man
with its gaze; must make sorcery save at −2
penalty or acquiesce to vampire’s will. The save is
modified by willpower adjustment (see Vol. I, p. 9:
Attributes, wisdom), if applicable. Vampire then
can bite victim’s neck to drain blood for 1 point of
constitution per round. Those drained to 1 or 2 CN
become vampire
thralls; those
drained to 0
CN are slain.
Survivors regain
lost CN at 1 point
per day of complete
bed rest.
¬¬ Rare is the vampire
that retains a class from
its mortal life (oftest a
magician or cleric), with
abilities as high as 9th level,
but no additional HD.
